- ***COMMON STOCKS AND UNCOMMON PROFITS***
    - A study indicates that the greatest investment reward comes to those who by good luck or good sense find the occasional company that over the years can grow in sales and profits far more than industry as a whole. It further shows that when we believe we have found such a company we had better stick with it for a long period of time. It gives us a strong hint that such companies need not necessarily be young and small. Instead, regardless of size, what really counts is a management having both a determination to attain further important growth and an ability to bring its plans to completion.
    - **The Fifteen Points to Look for in a Common Stock**  
        1. Does the company have products or services with sufficient market potential to make possible a sizable increase in sales for at least several years?
        2. Does the management have a determination to continue to develop products or processes that will still further increase total sales potentials when the growth potentials of currently attractive product lines have largely been exploited?
        3. How effective are the company’s research and development efforts in relation to its size?       
        4. Does the company have an above-average sales organization?
            - For steady long-term growth a strong sales arm is vital.
            - Try to find some that have both aggressive distribution and a constantly improving sales organization.  
        5. Does the company have a worthwhile profit margin?
            - most of the really big investment gains have come from companies having relatively broad profit margins. Usually they have among the best such margins in their industry.
            - investors desiring maximum gains over the years had best stay away from low-profit-margin or marginal companies.
        6. What is the company doing to maintain or improve profit margins?
            - When profit margins of a whole industry rise because of repeated price increases, the indication is not a good one for the long-range investor.
        7. Does the company have outstanding labor and personnel relations?
        8. Does the company have outstanding executive relations?
        9. Does the company have depth to its management?    
        10. How good are the company’s cost analysis and accounting controls?
        11. Are there other aspects of the business, somewhat peculiar to the industry involved, which will give the investor important clues as to how outstanding the company may be in relation to its competition?
        12. Does the company have a short-range or long-range outlook in regard to profits?         
            - The investor wanting maximum results should favor companies with a truly long-range outlook concerning profits.
        13. In the foreseeable future will the growth of the company require sufficient equity financing so that the larger number of shares then outstanding will largely cancel the existing stockholders’ benefit from this anticipated growth?     
        14. Does the management talk freely to investors about its affairs when things are going well but “clam up” when troubles and disappointments occur?
            - In any event, the investor will do well to exclude from investment any company that withholds or tries to hide bad news.
        15. Does the company have a management of unquestionable integrity?
            - Without breaking any laws, the number of ways in which those in control can benefit themselves and their families at the expense of the ordinary stockholder is almost infinite. One way is to put themselves—to say nothing of their relatives or in-laws—on the payroll at salaries far above the normal worth of the work performed. Another is to own properties they sell or rent to the corporation at above-market rates.
            - Regardless of how high the rating may be in all other matters, however, if there is a serious question of the lack of a strong management sense of trusteeship for stockholders, the investor should never seriously consider participating in such an enterprise.    
    
    - **What to Buy**    
        - The young growth stock offers by far the greatest possibility of gain. Sometimes this can mount up to several thousand per cent in a decade. But making at least an occasional investment mistake is inevitable even for the most skilled investor. It should never be forgotten that if such a mistake is made in this type of common stock, every dollar put into the investment can be lost. 
        - In contrast, if the stock is bought according to the rules described in the next chapter, any losses that might occur in the older and more established growth stocks should be temporary, resulting from a period of unanticipated decline in the stock market as a whole. The long-range gain in value of this class of big company growth stock will, over the years, be considerably less than that of the small and usually younger enterprise. Nevertheless it will mount to thoroughly worthwhile totals. Even in the most conservative of the growth stocks it should run to at least several times the original investment.
        - In all these cases, however, the gain in value over the years of the more conservative group of stocks should be enough to outweigh even complete loss of all funds put into the more risky type. Meanwhile, if properly selected, the more risky type could significantly increase the total capital gain. Equally important if this happens, these young risky companies will by that time have reached a point in their own development where their stocks will no longer be carrying anything like the former degree of risk but may even have progressed to a status where institutions have begun buying them.    
        - Most small investors cannot live on the return on their investment no matter how high a yield is obtained, since the total value of their holdings is not great enough. Therefore for the small investor the matter of current dividend return usually comes down to a choice between a few hundred dollars a year starting right now, or the chance of obtaining an income many times this few hundred dollars a year at a later date.      
        - This is that the only funds the small investor should consider using for common stock investment are funds that are truly surplus. Similarly, funds already set aside for some specific future purpose, such as sending a child through college, should never be risked in the stock market. It is only after taking care of matters of this sort that he should consider common stock investment.
        - The growth stocks, over a five- or ten-year span, have proven spectacularly better so far as their increase in capital value is concerned. The growth stocks had not only shown a marked superiority in the field of capital appreciation, but given a reasonable time, they had grown to a point where they showed superiority in the matter of dividend return as well.
    
    - **When to Buy**    
        - Once the investor is sure he has definitely found an outstanding stock, isn’t any time at all a good time to buy it? The answer to this depends somewhat on the investor’s objective. It also depends on his temperament.        
        - if the right stocks are bought and held long enough they will always produce some profit. Usually they will produce a handsome profit. However, to produce close to the maximum profit, the kind of spectacular profit defined earlier, some consideration must be given to timing.
        - For example, This would be the purchase of several superbly selected enterprises in the summer of 1929 or just before the greatest stock market crash of American history. In time such a purchase would have turned out well. But twenty-five years later it would provide a much smaller percentage gain than would have been the case if, having done the hardest part of the job in selecting his companies properly, an investor had made the small extra effort needed to understand a few simple principles about the timing of growth stocks.
        - The point in the development of a new process that is perhaps worth the closest scrutiny from the standpoint of timing the buying of common stocks is that at which the first full-scale commercial plant is about to begin production.
        - In short, the company into which the investor should be buying is the company which is doing things under the guidance of exceptionally able management.
        - **Protect good investments from bad market timiming(Crash/Recession):** The investors should start buying the appropriate type of common stocks just as soon as they feel sure they have located one or more of them. However, having made a start in this type of purchasing, they should stagger the timing of further buying. They should plan to allow several years before the final part of their available funds will have become invested. By so doing, if the market has a severe decline somewhere in this period, they will still have purchasing power available to take advantage of such a decline. If no decline occurs and they have properly selected their earlier purchases, they should have at least a few substantial gains on such holdings. This would provide a cushion so that if a severe decline happened to occur at the worst possible time for them—which would be just after the final part of their funds had become fully invested—the gains on the earlier purchases should largely, if not entirely, offset the declines on the more recent ones. No severe loss of original capital would therefore be involved.
        - five powerful market forces:
            - the current phase of the business cycle
            - the trend of interest rates
            - the over-all governmental attitude toward investment and private enterprise
            - the long-range trend to more and more inflation, and
            - possibly most powerful of all—new inventions and techniques as they affect old industries.
        - These forces are seldom all pulling stock prices in the same direction at the same time. Nor is any one of them necessarily going to be of vastly greater importance than any other for long periods of time. So complex and diverse are these influences that the safest course to follow will be the one that at first glance appears to be the most risky.This is to take investment action when matters you know about a specific company appear to warrant such action. Be undeterred by fears or hopes based on conjectures, or conclusions based on surmises.    
    
    - **When to Sell And When Not To**    
        - Selling should be motivated by a single objective—obtaining the greatest total dollar benefit from the investment dollars available.
        - There are 3 reasons only:
            1. This is when a mistake has been made in the original purchase and it becomes increasingly clear that the factual background of the particular company is, by a significant margin, less favorable than originally believed. The proper handling of this type of situation is largely a matter of emotional self-control. To some degree it also depends upon the investor’s ability to be honest with himself.
               **More money has probably been lost by investors holding a stock they really did not want until they could “at least come out even” than from any other single reason. If to these actual losses are added the profits that might have been made through the proper reinvestment of these funds if such reinvestment had been made when the mistake was first realized, the cost of self-indulgence becomes truly tremendous.**
            2. Sales should always be made of the stock of a company which, because of changes resulting from the passage of time, no longer qualifies in regard to the fifteen points outlined above. 
               Companies deteriorate due to one of two reasons: Either there has been a deterioration of management, or the company no longer has the prospect of increasing the markets for its product in the way it formerly did.
            3. A better investment is available(opportunities for attractive investment are extremely hard to find, and should be acted upon only if an investor is very sure of his ground): 
               The already-owned company may in some other important aspects appear to be less attractive as well. If the evidence is clear-cut and the investor feels quite sure of his ground, it will, even after paying capital gains taxes, probably pay him handsomely to switch into the situation with seemingly better prospects.
        - At this point the critical reader has probably discerned a basic investment principle which by and large seems only to be understood by a small minority of successful investors. **This is that once a stock has been properly selected and has borne the test of time, it is only occasionally that there is any reason for selling it at all.**
        - Few arguments investors sometimes use to separate themselves from the profits they would otherwise make:
            1. It is that the stock they own has had a huge advance. Therefore, just because it has gone up, it has probably used up most of its potential. Consequently they should sell it and buy something that hasn’t gone up yet. **Outstanding companies, the only type which I believe the investor should buy, just don’t function this way.**
            2. Suppose that instead of selling at twentyfive times earnings, as usually happens, the stock is now at thirty-five times earnings. If the growth rate is so good that in another ten years the company might well have quadrupled, is it really of such great concern whether at the moment the stock might or might not be 35 per cent overpriced? That which really matters is not to disturb a position that is going to be worth a great deal more later.
        - **If the job has been correctly done when a common stock is purchased, the time to sell it is—almost never.**
    
    - **The Hullabaloo about Dividends**
        - Actually dividend considerations should be given the least, not the most, weight by those desiring to select outstanding stocks. Perhaps the most peculiar aspect of this much-discussed subject of dividends is that those giving them the least consideration usually end up getting the best dividend return. Worthy of repetition here is that over a span of five to ten years, the best dividend results will come not from the high-yield stocks but from those with the relatively low yield.    
    
    - **Five Don’ts for Investors**
        1. Don’t buy into promotional companies:
            - any company without at least two or three years of commercial operation and one year of operating profit in a completely different category from an established company—even one so small that it may not have more than a million dollars of annual sales.
            - There are enough spectacular opportunities among established companies that ordinary individual investors should make it a rule never to buy into a promotional enterprise, no matter how attractive it may appear to be.
        2. Don’t ignore a good stock just because it is traded “over the counter.”
        3. Don’t buy a stock just because you like the “tone” of its annual report:
            - The annual report may also, however, reflect little more than the skill of the company’s public relations department in creating an impression about the company in the public mind. There is no way of telling whether the president has actually written the remarks in an annual report, or whether a public relations officer has written them for his signature.
            - It is well to remember that annual reports nowadays are generally designed to build up stockholder good will. It is important to go beyond them to the underlying facts. They seldom present balanced and complete discussions of the real problems and difficulties of the business.
        4. Don’t assume that the high price at which a stock may be selling in relation to earnings is necessarily an indication that further growth in those earnings has largely been already discounted in the price:
        5. Don’t quibble over eighths and quarters:
            - On the day he decided to buy, the stock closed at 35½. On the following day it sold repeatedly at that price. But this gentleman would not pay 35½. He decided he might as well save fifty dollars. He put his order in at 35. He refused to raise it. The stock never again sold at 35. Today, almost twenty-five years later, the stock appears to have a particularly bright future. As a result of the stock dividends and splits that have occurred in the intervening years, it is now selling at over 500. 
            - In other words, in an attempt to save fifty dollars, this investor failed to make at least $46,500.
            
    - **Five More Don’ts for Investors**        
        1. Don’t overstress diversification.
            - Some companies, such as most of the major chemical manufacturers, have a considerable degree of diversification within the company itself. While all of their products may be classified as chemicals, many of these chemicals may have most of the attributes found in products from completely different industries.
            - The breadth and depth of a company’s management personnel— that is, how far a company has progressed away from one-man management— are also important factors in deciding how much diversification protection is intrinsically needed.
            - The relationship between the industries involved will also be a factor. For example, an investor with ten stocks in equal amounts, but eight of them bank stocks, may have completely inadequate diversification.
            - Minimum diversification suggestions:-
                1. All investments might be confined solely to the large entrenched type of properly selected growth stock, of which Dow, Du Pont, and IBM have already been mentioned as typical examples. In this event, the investor might have a minimum goal of five such stocks in all. This means that he would not invest over 20 per cent of his total original commitment in any one of these stocks. It does not mean that should one grow more rapidly than the rest, so that ten years later he found 40 per cent of his total market value in one stock, he should in any sense disturb such a holding. An investor using this guide of 20 per cent of his original investment for each company should see that there is no more than a moderate amount of overlapping, if any, between the product lines of his five companies.
                2. Some or all of his investments might fall into the category of stocks about midway between the young growth companies with their high degree of risk and the institutional type of investment described above. In other words, if only companies in this B group were involved, an investor might start out with 10 per cent of his available funds in each. This would make a total of ten stocks in all. It might be prudent to consider those with the greater inherent risk as candidates for 8 per cent of original investment, rather than 10 per cent.
                3. Finally there are the small companies with staggering possibilities of gain for the successful, but complete or almost complete loss of investment for the unsuccessful. However, there are two good rules to follow in regard to investments of this type. One has already been mentioned. Never put any funds into them that you cannot afford to lose. The other is that larger investors should never at the time of the original investment put over 5 per cent of available funds into any one such company.  
            - All the above percentages represent merely a minimum or prudent standard of diversification. Going below this limit is a bit like driving an automobile above normal speeds. A driver doing this may get where he wants to go sooner than he otherwise would. However, he should keep in mind that he is driving at a rate requiring extra alertness and vigilance. Forgetting this, he may not only fail to arrive at his destination more quickly—he may never get there at all.
            - Practical investors usually learn their problem is finding enough outstanding investments, rather than choosing among too many. Usually a very long list of securities is not a sign of the brilliant investor, but of one who is unsure of himself.
            - An investor should always realize that some mistakes are going to be made and that he should have sufficient diversification so that an occasional mistake will not prove crippling. However, beyond this point he should take extreme care to own not the most, but the best. In the field of common stocks, a little bit of a great many can never be more than a poor substitute for a few of the outstanding.
        2. Don’t be afraid of buying on a war scare:
            - Every time the international stresses of our world produce either a war scare or an actual war, common stocks reflect it. This is a psychological phenomenon which makes little sense financially.
            - What do investors overlook that causes them to dump stocks both on the fear of war and on the arrival of war itself, even though by the end of the war stocks have always gone much higher than lower? 
              They forget that stock prices are quotations expressed in money. Modern war always causes governments to spend far more than they can possibly collect from their taxpayers while the war is being waged. This causes a vast increase in the amount of money, so that each individual unit of money, such as a dollar, becomes worth less than it was before. It takes lots more dollars to buy the same number of shares of stock. This, of course, is the classic form of inflation.
            - To sell stock at the threatened or actual outbreak of hostilities so as to get into cash is extreme financial lunacy. Actually just the opposite should be done. If an investor has about decided to buy a particular common stock and the arrival of a full-blown war scare starts knocking down the price, he should ignore the scare psychology of the moment and definitely begin buying. This is the time when having surplus cash for investment becomes least, not most, desirable.  
            - How fast should he buy? How far down will the stock go? As long as the downward influence is a war scare and not war, there is no way of knowing. If actual hostilities break out, the price would undoubtedly go still lower, perhaps a lot lower. Therefore, the thing to do is to buy but buy slowly and at a scale-down on just a threat of war. If war occurs, then increase the tempo of buying significantly. Just be sure to buy into companies either with products or services the demand for which will continue in wartime, or which can convert their facilities to wartime operations.
        
        3. Don’t forget your Gilbert and Sullivan(“Don’t be influenced by what doesn’t matter)
            - There are certain superficial financial statistics which are frequently given an undeserved degree of attention by many investors.  Foremost among such statistics are the price ranges at which a stock has sold in former years. For some reason, the first thing many investors want to see when they are considering buying a particular stock is a table giving the highest and lowest price at which that stock has sold in each of the past five or ten years. They go through a sort of mental mumbo-jumbo, and come up with a nice round figure which is the price they are willing to pay for the particular stock. Is this illogical? Is it financially dangerous? 
            - Is this illogical? Is it financially dangerous? The answer to both questions is emphatically yes. It is dangerous because it puts the emphasis on what does not particularly matter, and diverts attention from what does matter. This frequently causes investors to pass up a situation in which they would make big profits in order to go into one where the profits will be much smaller.
            - By giving heavy emphasis to the “stock that hasn’t gone up yet” they are unconsciously subscribing to the delusion that all stocks go up about the same amount and that the one that has already risen a lot will not climb further, while the one that has not yet gone up has something “due” it. Nothing could be further from the truth. The fact that a stock has or has not risen in the last several years is of no significance whatsoever in determining whether it should be bought now.
            - Many investors will give heavy weight to the per-share earnings of the past five years in trying to decide whether a stock should be bought. To look at the per-share earnings by themselves and give the earnings of four or five years ago any significance is like trying to get useful work from an engine which is unconnected to any device to which that engine’s power is supposed to be applied. Just knowing, by itself, that four or five years ago a company’s per-share earnings were either four times or a quarter of this year’s earnings has almost no significance in indicating whether a particular stock should be bought or sold. Again, what counts is knowledge of background conditions. An understanding of what probably will happen over the next several years is of overriding importance.
            - This brings up another line of reasoning which causes some investors to pay undue attention to these unrelated statistics on past price ranges and per-share earnings. This is the belief that whatever has happened for a number of years is bound to continue indefinitely. In other words, some investors will find a stock the per-share earnings and market price of which have risen in each of the past five or ten years. They will conclude that this trend is almost certain to continue indefinitely. **To give emphasis to this kind of past earning record, rather than to the background conditions that can control the future earning curve, may prove very costly.**
            - Does all this mean that past earnings and price ranges should be completely ignored in deciding whether to buy a stock? No. It is only when given an importance they do not deserve that they become dangerous. They are helpful as long as it is realized they are only auxiliary tools to be used for specialized purposes and not major factors in deciding the attractiveness of a common stock. Thus, for example, a study of per-share earnings for various prior years will throw considerable light on how cyclical a stock may be, that is, on how much the company’s profits will be affected by the varying stages of the business cycle. More important, comparing past per-share earnings with price ranges will furnish the price-earnings ratio at which the stock sold in the past. This serves as a base from which to start measuring what the price-earnings ratio may be in the future. Here again, however, it must be kept in mind that it is the future and not the past which governs.
        
        4. Don’t fail to consider time as well as price in buying a true growth stock:
            - The stock might be considered to be reasonably priced around 20 and out of all reason at its present price of 32. Assuming that five years from now these new influences could easily cause it to be fully worth 75, should we, right now, pay 32—or 60 per cent more than we believe the stock is worth? There is always the chance that these new developments might not turn out to be as good as we think. There is also the possibility that this stock might sink back to what we consider its real value of 20. 
            - Our concern is that if we buy at 32, the stock may subsequently go somewhere around 20. This would not alone cause us a temporary loss. More significant, it would mean that if the stock subsequently went to 75, we would have for our money only about 60 per cent of the shares that we could have gotten if we had waited and bought at 20. Assuming that in twenty years still other new ventures would have given these shares a value not of 75 but of 200, this factor of the total number of shares we could have obtained for our money would prove extremely important.
            - Objective is to buy the shares not at a certain price, but at a certain date. Perhaps it averaged about one month before these ventures reached the pilot-plant stage. Assuming that our company’s shares are still selling around 32, why not plan to buy these shares five months from today, which will be just one month before the pilot plant goes on stream?
              
        5. Don’t follow the crowd:
            - Type of price influence. This is a change which is purely psychological. Nothing has changed in the outside or economic world at all. The great majority of the financial community merely look upon the same circumstances from a different viewpoint than before. As a result of this changed way of appraising the same set of basic facts, they make a changed appraisal of the price or the price-earnings ratio they will pay for the same shares.

    - **How I Go about Finding a Growth Stock**
        1. Final investment leads(potential investment opportunities):
            - The first original idea for almost four-fifths of the investigations and almost five-sixths of the ultimate pay-out (as measured by worthwhile purchases) had come from a quite different group. Across the nation I had gradually come to know and respect a small number of men whom I had seen do outstanding work of their own in selecting common stocks for growth.
            - Other sources of original leads are: Trade and Finance Periodicals, Consulting Research Labs
        2. There are three things I emphatically do not do:
            1. I do not (for reasons that I think will soon become clear) approach anyone in the management at this stage. 
            2. I do not spend hours and hours going over old annual reports and making minute studies of minor year-by-year changes in the balance sheet. 
            3. I do not ask every stockbroker I know what he thinks of the stock.            
        3. I will, however, glance over the balance sheet to determine the general nature of the capitalization and financial position.
        4. If there is an SEC prospectus I will read with care those parts covering breakdown of total sales by product lines, competition, degree of officer or other major ownership of common stock (this can also usually be obtained from the proxy statement), and all earning statement figures throwing light on depreciation (and depletion, if any), profit margins, extent of research activity, and abnormal or non-recurring costs in prior years’ operations.
        5. I will use the “scuttlebutt” method to get answers on the 15 points above. I will try to see (or reach on the telephone) every key customer, supplier, competitor, ex-employee, or scientist in a related field that I know or whom I can approach through mutual friends.
           - If I am not even close to getting much of the information I need, I will give up the investigation and go on to something else. To make big money on investments it is unnecessary to get some answer to every investment that might be considered. What is necessary is to get the right answer a large proportion of the very small number of times actual purchases are made. For this reason, if way too little background is forthcoming and the prospects for a great deal more are bleak, I believe the intelligent thing to do is to put the matter aside and go on to something else.
           - However, suppose quite a bit of background has become available. You have called on everyone you know or can readily approach, but have spotted one or two people who you believe could do much to complete your picture if they would talk freely to you. I would not just walk in on them off the street. Most people, interested as they may be in the industry in which they are engaged, are not inclined to tell to total strangers what they really think about the strong and weak points of a customer, a competitor, or a supplier. I would find out the commercial bank of the people I want to meet.
        6. Only after scuttlebutt, think about approaching the management for answers.
        7. It is my opinion that in almost any field nothing is worth doing unless it is worth doing right. When it comes to selecting growth stocks, the rewards for proper action are so huge and the penalty for poor judgment is so great that it is hard to see why anyone would want to select a growth stock on the basis of superficial knowledge. If an investor or financial man wants to go about finding a growth stock properly, I believe one rule he should always follow is this: he should never visit the management of any company he is considering for investment until he has first gathered together at least 50 per cent of all the knowledge he would need to make the investment.   
        
        - **Summary:**  This about sums up how I go about finding growth stocks. Possibly one-fifth of my first investigations start from ideas gleaned from friends in industry and four-fifths from culling what I believe are the more attractive selections of a small number of able investment men. These decisions are frankly a fast snap judgment on which companies I should spend my time investigating and which I should ignore. Then after a brief scrutiny of a few key points in an SEC prospectus, I will seek “scuttlebutt” aggressively, constantly working toward how close to our fifteen-point standard the company comes. I will discard one prospective investment after another along the way. Some because the evidence piles up that they are just run of the mill. Others because I cannot get enough evidence to be reasonably sure one way or the other. Only in the occasional case when I have a great amount of favorable data do I then go to the final step of contacting the management. Then if after meeting with management I find my prior hopes pretty well confirmed and some of my previous fears eased by answers that to me make sense, at last I am ready to feel I may be rewarded for all my efforts.
        - How can anyone be expected to spend this amount of time finding just one investment? Why are not the answers already neatly worked out for me by the first person in the investment business to whom I ask what I should buy? 
          I would ask those with this reaction to look at the world around them. In what other line of activity could you put $10,000 in one year and ten years later (with only occasional checking in the meantime to be sure management continues of high caliber) be able to have an asset worth from $40,000 to $150,000? This is the kind of reward gained from selecting growth stocks successfully. Is it either logical or reasonable that Â�anyone could do this with an effort no harder than reading a few simply worded brokers’ free circulars in the comfort of an armchair one evening a week? Does it make sense that anyone should be able to pick up this type of profit by paying the first investment man he sees a commission of $135, which is the New York Stock Exchange charge for buying 500 shares of stock at $20 per share?
          
    - **Summary and Conclusion**
        - It should be remembered, however, that knowing the rules and understanding these common mistakes will do nothing to help those who do not have some degree of patience and self-discipline.      
        - The success of my own business— or any business—depends on following the principles of two I’s and an H. These principles are integrity, ingenuity, and hard work.
        
- ***CONSERVATIVE INVESTORS SLEEP WELL***
    
    - **INTRODUCTION**
        - Often there is so much confusion between acting conservatively and acting conventionally that for those truly determined to conserve their assets
            1. A conservative investment is one most likely to conserve (i.e., maintain) purchasing power at a minimum of risk.
            2. Conservative investing is understanding of what a conservative investment consists and then, in regard to specific investments, following a procedural course of action needed properly to determine whether specific investment vehicles are, in fact, conservative investments. 
       
    - **The First Dimension of a Conservative Investment - Superiority in Production, Marketing, Research, and Financial Skills**
        - **LOW-COST PRODUCTION:** In this way will it give its owners a broad enough margin between costs and selling price to create two vital conditions. 
            1. One is sufficient leeway below the break-even point of most competition. When a bad year hits the industry, prices are unlikely to stay for long under this break-even point. As long as they do, losses for much of the higher-cost competition will be so great that some of these competitors will be forced to cease production. This almost automatically increases the profits of the surviving low-cost companies because they benefit from the increased production that comes to them as they take over demand formerly supplied by the closed plants. The low-cost company will benefit even more when the decreased supply from competitors enables it not only to do more business but also to increase prices as excess supplies stop pressing on the market.
            2. The greater than average profit margin should enable a company to earn enough to generate internally a significant part or perhaps all of the funds required for financing growth. This avoids much or even all of the need for raising additional longterm capital that can (a) result in new shares being issued and diluting the value of already outstanding shares and/or (b) create an additional burden of debt, with fixed interest payments and fixed maturities (which must largely be met from future earnings) which greatly increase the risks of the common-stock owners.
            3. However, it should be realized that, just as the degree to which a company is a low-cost producer increases the safety and conservatism of the investment, so in a boom period in a bullish market does it decrease its speculative appeal. The percentage that profits rise in such times will always be far greater for the high-cost, risky, marginal company. Simple arithmetic will explain why. Let us take an imaginary example of two companies of the same size that, when times were normal, were selling widgets at ten cents apiece. Company A has a profit of four cents per widget and Company B of one cent. Now let us suppose that costs remain the same but a temporary extra demand for widgets pushes up the price to twelve cents, with both companies remaining the same size. The strong company has increased profits from four cents per widget to six cents, a gain of 50 percent, but the high-cost company has made a 300 percent profit gain, or tripled its profits 
            4. The same principles apply for all companies(manufacturing, finance, service), but the word operations is substituted for production and a low- or high-cost operator for a low- or high-cost producer.
        
        - **STRONG MARKETING ORGANIZATION:**       
            - A strong marketer must be constantly alert to the changing desires of its customers so that the company is supplying what is desired today, not what used to be desired. At the turn of the century, for example, there was something wrong with the marketing efforts of a leading manufacturer of horse-drawn buggies if it persisted in trying to compete by making finer and finer buggies rather than turning to automobiles or going out of business altogether.
            - But recognizing changes in public taste and then reacting promptly to these changes is not enough, it is vital to make the potential customer aware of the advantages of a product or service. This awareness can be created only by understanding what the potential buyer really wants (sometimes when the customer himself doesn’t clearly recognize why these advantages appeal to him) and explaining it to him not in the seller’s terms but in his terms.
            - Whether this is best done by advertising, by salesmen making calls, by specialized independent marketing organizations, or by any combination of these depends on the nature of the business.
            - What is required in every instance is close control and constant managerial measurement of the cost effectiveness of whatever means are used.  
         
        - **OUTSTANDING RESEARCH AND TECHNICAL EFFORT**
            - Technological efforts are now channeled in two directions: to produce new and better products (in this connection, research scientists may, of course, do somewhat more for a chemical company than for a grocery chain) and to perform services in a better way or at a lower cost than in the past. With regard to the latter objective, outstanding technical talent can be equally valuable for either group.    
            - Developing new products usually calls for the pooling of the efforts of a number of researchers, each skilled in a different technological specialty. How well these individuals work together (or can be induced by a leader to work together and stimulate each other) is often as important as the individual competence of the people involved. Furthermore, to maximize profits, it is vital not to develop just any product but one for which there will be significant customer demand, one that (nearly always) can be sold by the company’s existing marketing organization, and one that can be made at a price that will yield a worthwhile profit. All of this requires efficient liaison between research and both marketing and production. The best corporate research team in the world can become nothing but a liability if it develops only products that cannot be readily sold. 
            - For true investment superiority a company must have above-average ability to control all these complex relationships yet at the same time not so overcontrol them as to cause its researchers to lose the drive and the ingenuity that made them outstanding in the first place.
           
        - **FINANCIAL SKILL**
            - In a large company with a diverse product line, it is not a simple matter to be sure of the cost of each product in relation to the rest, as most costs other than materials and direct labor are spread over a number of such products, maybe over all of them. 
            - Companies with above-average financial talent have several significant advantages. Knowing accurately how much they make on each product, they can make their greatest efforts where these will produce maximum gains. Intimate knowledge of the extent of each element of costs, not just in manufacturing but in selling and research as well, spotlights in even minor phases of company activity the places where it is logical to make special efforts to reduce costs, either through technological innovations or by improving people’s specific assignments. 
            - Most important of all, through skillful budgeting and accounting, the truly outstanding company can create an early-warning system whereby unfavorable influences that threaten the profit plan can be quickly detected. Remedial action can then be taken to avoid the painful surprises that have jolted investors in many companies.
                
        - **To summarize:** The company that qualifies well in this first dimension of a conservative investment is a very low-cost producer or operator in its field, has outstanding marketing and financial ability and a demonstrated above-average skill on the complex managerial problem of attaining worthwhile results from its research or technological organization. In a world where change is occurring at an ever-increasing pace, it is:
            1. a company capable of developing a flow of new and profitable products or product lines that will more than balance older lines that may become obsolete by the technological innovations of others; 
            2. a company able now and in the future to make these lines at costs sufficiently low so as to generate a profit stream that will grow at least as fast as sales and that even in the worst years of general business will not diminish to a point that threatens the safety of an investment in the business; and 
            3. a company able to sell its newer products and those which it may develop in the future at least as profitably as those with which it is involved today.
          This is a one-dimensional picture of a prudent investment—one which, if not spoiled by the view from other dimensions, represents an investment with which the investor is unlikely to become disillusioned.
          
        - But before going on to examine these other dimensions, there is one additional point that should be fully understood. If the objective is conserving one’s funds, if the goal is safety, why have we been talking about growth and the development of new and additional product lines? Why isn’t it enough to maintain a business at its existing size and level of profits without running all the risks that occur when new endeavors are started? When we come to a discussion of the influence of inflation on investments, other reasons for the importance of growth will present themselves. But fundamentally it should never be forgotten that, in a world where change is occurring at a faster and faster pace, nothing long remains the same. It is impossible to stand still. A company will either grow or shrink. A strong offense is the best defense. Only by growing better can a company be sure of not growing worse. Companies that have failed to go uphill have invariably gone downhill—and, if that has been true in the past, it will be even more true in the future. This is because, in addition to an ever-increasing pace of technological innovation, changing social customs and buying habits and new demands of government are altering at an ever-increasing pace the rate at which even the stodgiest industries are changing.
        
    - **The Second Dimension - The People Factor**
        - The force that creates one company in an industry that is an outstanding investment vehicle and another that is average, mediocre, or worse, is essentially people.
        - In general, however, the company with real investment merit is the company that usually promotes from within. This is because all companies of the highest investment order (these do not necessarily have to be the biggest and best-known companies) have developed a set of policies and ways of doing things peculiar to their own needs. If these special ways are truly worthwhile, it is always difficult and frequently impossible to retrain those long accustomed to them to different ways of getting things done.     
        - Of one thing the investor can be certain:A large company’s need to bring in a new chief executive from the outside is a damning sign of something basically wrong with the existing management—no matter how good the surface signs may have been as indicated by the most recent earnings statement.
        - If the salary of the number-one man is very much larger than that of the next two or three, a warning flag is flying. If the compensation scale goes down rather gradually, it isn’t.
        - However much policies may differ among companies, there are three elements that must always be present if a company’s shares are to be worthy of holding for conservative, long-range investment.
            1. The company must recognize that the world in which it is operating is changing at an ever-increasing rate:        
               All corporate thinking and planning must be attuned to challenge what is now being done—to challenge it not occasionally but again and again. Every accepted way of doing things must be examined and reexamined to be as sure as is permitted by human fallibility that this way is really the best way.       
            2. There must always be a conscious and continuous effort, based on fact, not propaganda, to have employees at every level, from the most newly hired blue-collar or white-collar worker to the highest levels of management, feel that their company is a good place to work.
            3. Management must be willing to submit itself to the disciplines required for sound growth     
               There are very few companies whose managements will not make claims to being growth companies. However, a management that talks about being growth-oriented is not necessarily actually so oriented. Many companies seem to have an irresistible urge to show the greatest possible profits at the end of each accounting period— to bring every possible cent down to the bottom line. This a true growth-oriented company can never do. Its focus must be on earning sufficient current profits to finance the costs of expanding the business. 
    
    - **The Third Dimension - Investment Characteristics of Some Businesses**
        - The third dimension deals with the degree to which there does or does not exist within the nature of the business itself certain inherent characteristics that make possible an above-average profitability for as long as can be foreseen into the future.
        - Above-average profitability is so important to the investor, not only as a source of further gain but as a protection for what he already has. The vital role of growth in this connection has already been discussed. Growth costs money in many ways. Part of what otherwise would be the profit stream has to be diverted to experimenting, inventing, testmarketing, new-product marketing, and all the other operating costs of expansion, including the complete loss of the inevitable percentage of such expansion attempts that are bound to fail. To accomplish all these things, profitability is vital.
        - In inflationary periods the matter of profitability becomes even more important.           
        - Profitability can be expressed in two ways. 
            1. The fundamental way, which is the yardstick used by most managements, is the return on invested assets. This is the factor that will cause a company to decide whether to go ahead with a new product or process. What percent return can the company expect on the part of its capital invested in this particular way in comparison to what the return might be if the same amount of its assets was employed in some other way? It is considerably more difficult for the investor to use this yardstick than it is for the corporate executive. What the investor usually sees is not the return on a specific amount of present-day dollars utilized in a specific subdivision of the business but the total earnings of the business as a percentage of its total assets.
            2. For this reason, comparing the profit margins per dollar of sales may be more helpful as long as one other point is kept in mind. This is that a company that has a high rate of sales in relation to assets may be a more profitable company than one with a higher profit margin to sales but a slower rate of sales turnover.
        - However, while from the standpoint of profitability return on investment must be considered as well as profit margin on sales, from the standpoint of safety of investment all the emphasis is on profit margin on sales. Thus if two companies were each to experience a 2 percent increase in operating costs and were unable to raise prices, the one with a 1 percent margin of profit would be running at a loss and might be wiped out, while, if the other had a 10 percent margin, the increased costs would wipe out only one-fifth of its profits.    
        - In today’s highly fluid and competitive business world, obtaining well-above-average profit margins or a high return on assets is so desirable that, whenever a company accomplishes this goal for any significant period of time, it is bound to be faced with a host of potential competitors.If the potential competitors actually enter the field, they will cut into markets the established company now has. Normally, when potential competition becomes actual competition the ensuing struggle for sales results in anything from a minor to a major reduction in the high profit margin that had theretofore existed. High profit margins may be compared to an open jar of honey owned by the prospering company.
        - The specific characteristics that enable certain well-managed companies to maintain above-average profit margins more or less indefinitely. Possibly the most common characteristic is what businessmen call the “economies of scale.” A simple example of economy of scale: A wellrun company making one million units a month will often have a lower production cost for each unit than a company producing only 100,000 units in the same period. The difference between the cost per unit of these two companies, one ten times larger than the other, can vary considerably from one line of business to another.
        - Furthermore, it should never be forgotten that in any industry the larger company will have a maximum advantage only if it is exceedingly well run. The bigger a company is, the harder it is to manage efficiently. Quite often the inherent advantages of scale are fully balanced or even more than balanced by the inefficiencies produced by too many bureaucratic layers of middle management, consequent delays in making decisions, and, at times, the seeming inability of top executives in the largest companies to know quickly just what needs corrective attention in various subdivisions of their far-flung complexes. 
        - **To summarize the matter of the third dimension of a truly conservative investment:** It is necessary not just to have the quality of personnel discussed in the second dimension but to have had that personnel (or their predecessors) steer the company into areas of activity where there are inherent reasons within the economics of the particular business so that above-average profitability is not a short-term matter. Put simply, the question to ask in regard to this third dimension is: “What can the particular company do that others would not be able to do about as well?” If the answer is almost nothing, so that, as the business gets more prosperous, others can rush in to share in the company’s prosperity on about equal terms, the evidence is conclusive that while the company’s stock may be cheap, the investment fails to qualify as to this third dimension.
        
    - **The Fourth Dimension - Price of a Conservative Investment**
        - The fourth dimension of any stock investment involves the priceearnings ratio—that is, the current price divided by the earnings per share.
        - Every significant price move of any individual common stock in relation to stocks as a whole occurs because of a changed appraisal of that stock by the financial community.
        - The phrase “significant price changes” is used rather than merely “price changes.” This is to exclude the kind of minor price variation that occurs if, say, an estate has twenty thousand shares of a stock that a clumsy broker rapidly dumps on the market with the result that the stock drops a point or two and then usually recovers as the liquidation ends.
        - The term “financial community” has been used to include all those able and enough interested to be potentially ready to buy or sell a particular stock at some price, keeping in mind that, with regard to impact on price, the importance of each of these potential buyers and sellers is weighted by the amount of buying or selling power each is in a position to exercise.    
        - To get a true perspective on the degree of conservatism—that is, of basic risk in any investment:-
            1. On the lowest end of the risk scale and most suitable for wise investment is the company that measures quite high in regard to the first three dimensions but currently is appraised by the financial community as less worthy, and therefore has a lower price-earnings ratio, than these fundamental facts warrant. 
            2. Next least risky and usually quite suitable for intelligent investment is the company rating quite high in regard to the first three dimensions and having an image and therefore a price-earnings ratio reasonably in line with these fundamentals. This is because such a company will continue to grow if it truly has these attributes. 
            3. Next least risky and, in my opinion, usually suitable for retention by conservative investors who own them but not for fresh purchase with new funds are companies that are equally strong in regard to the first three dimensions but, because these qualities have become almost legendary in the financial community, have an appraisal or price-earnings ratio higher than is warranted by even the strong fundamentals.
            4. We come next to the stocks that are average or relatively low in quality in regard to the first three dimensions but have an appraisal in the financial community either lower than, or about in line with, these not very attractive fundamentals. Those with a poorer appraisal than basic conditions warrant may be good speculations but are not suitable for the prudent investor. In the fast-moving world of today there is just too much danger of adverse developments severely affecting such shares.
            5. The most dangerous group of all: companies with a present financial-community appraisal or image far above what is currently justified by the immediate situation. Purchase of such shares can cause the sickening losses that tend to drive investors away from stock ownership in droves and threaten to shake the investment industry to its foundations.
        
    - **More about the Fourth Dimension**    
        - Appraisal by Financial Community always results from the blending of three separate appraisals: 
            1. the current financial-community appraisal of the attractiveness of common stocks as a whole, 
            2. of the industry of which the particular company is a part, and, finally, 
            3. of the company itself.
        - **Let us first examine the matter of INDUSTRY APPRAISALS:** Everyone knows that, over long periods of time, there can be a sizable decline in the price-earnings ratio the financial community will pay to participate in an industry as it passes from an early stage when huge markets appear ahead to a much later period where it, in turn, may be threatened by new technologies    
        - The conservative investor must be aware of the nature of the current financial-community appraisal of any industry in which he is interested. He should constantly be probing to see whether that appraisal is significantly more or less favorable than the fundamentals warrant. Only by judging properly on this point can he be reasonably sure about one of the three variables that will govern the long-term trend of market price of stocks of that industry.
         
    - **Still More about the Fourth Dimension**
        - **The financial community’s appraisal of a company’s own characteristics:**  is an even more important factor in the price-earnings ratio than is the appraisal of the industry in which the company is engaged.
        - In making a determination as to the relative attractiveness of two or more stocks, investors often confuse themselves by attempting too simple a mathematical approach to such a problem. Let us suppose, for example, they compare two companies, the profits of each of which, after careful study, appear to afford prospects of growing at a rate of 10 percent a year. If one is selling at ten times earnings and the other at twenty times, the stock selling at ten times earnings appears cheaper. It may be. It also may not be. There can be a number of reasons for this. The seemingly cheaper company may have such a leveraged capitalization (interest charges and preferred dividends that must be earned before anything accrues to the common-stock holder) that the danger of interruption of the expected growth rate may be much greater in the lower price-earnings-ratio stock.
        - Another far more important and far less understood way to reach wrong conclusions is to rely too much on simple comparisons of the price-earnings ratios of stocks that seem to be offering comparable opportunities for growth. 
        - The further into the future profits will continue to grow, the higher the price-earnings ratio an investor can afford to pay. This rule, however, should be applied with great caution. It should never be forgotten that the actual variations in price-earnings ratio will result not from what will actually happen but from what the financial community currently believes will happen. - In a period of general market optimism a stock may sell at an extremely high price-earnings ratio because the financial community quite correctly envisages many years of great growth ahead. But many years will have to elapse before this growth is fully realized. The great growth that had been correctly discounted in the price-earnings ratio is likely to become “undiscounted” for a while, particularly if the company experiences the type of temporary setback that is not uncommon for even the best of companies. In times of general market pessimism, this kind of “undiscounting” of some of the very finest investments can reach rather extreme levels. When it does, it affords the patient investor, with the ability to distinguish between current market image and true facts, some of the most attractive opportunities common stocks can offer for handsome longterm profits at relatively small risk.
        - **third element of investment - community appraisal:**  This third appraisal is that of the outlook for stocks in general. To see the rather extreme effect such general market appraisals can have in certain periods and how far these views can vary from the facts, it may be well to review the two most extreme such appraisals of this century. Ridiculous as it may seem to us today, in the period from 1927 to 1929, the majority of the financial community actually believed we were in a “new era.”
        - However, the level of stocks as a whole is not solely a matter of image but results partly from the financial community’s current appraisal of the degree of attractiveness of common stocks and partly from a certain purely financial factor from the real world.
        - This real-world factor is mainly involved with interest rates. When interest rates are high in either the long- or short-term money markets, and even more so when they are high in both, there is a tendency for a larger part of the pool of investment capital to flow toward those markets, so the demand for stocks is less. Stocks may be sold to transfer funds to these markets. Conversely, when rates are low, funds flow out of those markets and into stocks. Therefore, higher interest rates tend to lower the level of all stocks and lower interest rates to raise that level.
        - Similarly, when the public is in a mood to save a larger percentage of its income, more funds flow into the total capital pool and there is a more bullish pull on stock prices than when the pool of capital funds is rising more slowly. However, this is a much smaller influence than is the level of interest rates. 
        - **Only after all three are blended together can a worthwhile judgment be reached as to whether a stock is cheap or high at any given time.**                                                          
    
    - **This fourth dimension to stock investing might be summarized in this way: The price of any particular stock at any particular moment is determined by the current financial-community appraisal of the particular company, of the industry it is in, and to some degree of the general level of stock prices. Determining whether at that moment the price of a stock is attractive, unattractive or somewhere in between depends for the most part on the degree these appraisals vary from reality. However, to the extent that the general level of stock prices affects the total picture, it also depends somewhat on correctly estimating coming changes in certain purely financial factors, of which interest rates are by far the most important.**
    
- ***DEVELOPING AN INVESTMENT PHILOSOPHY***
    - **Origins of a Philosophy:**
        - For any part of the funds supervised by Fisher & Co., except for funds temporarily in cash or cash equivalents awaiting more suitable opportunities, it is the objective that they be invested in a very small number of companies that, because of the characteristics of their management, should both grow in sales and more importantly in profits at a rate significantly greater than industry as a whole. They should also do so at relatively small risk in relation to the growth involved. To meet Fisher & Co. standards, a management must have a viable policy for attaining these ends with all the willingness to subordinate immediate profits for the greater long-range gains that this concept requires. In addition, two characteristics are necessary. One is the ability to implement long-range policy with superior day-to-day performance in all the routine tasks of business operation. The other is that when significant mistakes occur, as is bound at times to happen when management strives for unique benefits through innovative concepts, new products, etc., or because management becomes too complacent through success, these mistakes are recognized clearly and remedial action is taken.
        - No investment philosophy, unless it is just a carbon copy of someone else’s approach, develops in its complete form in any one day or year. In my own case, it grew over a considerable period of time, partly as a result of what perhaps may be called logical reasoning, and partly from observing the successes and failures of others, but much of it through the more painful method of learning from my own mistakes.
        - What really counts in determining whether a stock is cheap or overpriced is not its ratio to the current year’s earnings, but its ratio to the earnings a few years ahead. A low price-earnings ratio was just as apt to be a sign that a stock was an investment trap as that it was a bargain
        - If I could build in myself the ability to determine within fairly broad limits what those earnings might be a few years from now, I would have unlocked the key both to avoiding losses and to making magnificent profits!
        - **Three-year rule:** I have repeated again and again to my clients that when I purchase something for them, not to judge the results in a matter of a month or a year, but to allow me a three-year period. If I have a deep conviction about a stock that has not performed by the end of three years, I will sell it. If this same stock has performed worse rather than better than the market for a year or two, I won’t like it. However, assuming that nothing has happened to change my original view of the company, I will continue to hold it for three years.
        - If a buyer desires to acquire a very large block of stock, he cannot completely ignore this matter of an eighth or a quarter, because by buying a very few shares he can significantly put the price up on himself for the balance. However, for the great majority of transactions, being stubborn about a tiny fractional difference in the price can prove extremely costly.
    
    - **The Philosophy Matures:**       
        - Moreover, for those seeking major gains through long-term investments, the odds of winning are not the only consideration. If the investment is in a well-run company with sufficient financial strength, even the greatest bear market will not erase the value of holding. In contrast, time after time, truly unusual stocks have subsequent peaks many hundreds of percent above their previous peaks. Thus, risk/reward considerations favor long-term investment.
        - So, putting it in the simplest mathematical terms, both the odds and the risk/reward considerations favor holding. There is a much greater chance of being wrong in estimating adverse short-term changes for a good stock than in projecting its strong, long-term price appreciation potential. If you stay with the right stocks through even a major temporary market drop, you are at most going to be temporarily behind 40 percent of the former peak at the very worst point and will ultimately be ahead; whereas if you sell and don’t buy back you will have missed long-term profits many times the short-term gains from having sold the stock in anticipation at a short-term reversal.
        - It has been my observation that it is so difficult to time correctly the near-term price movements of an attractive stock that the profits made in the few instances when this stock is sold and subsequently replaced at significantly lower prices are dwarfed by the profits lost when timing is wrong. Many have sold too soon and have either never gotten back in or have postponed reinvestment too long to recapture the profits possible.
        - After a very sharp advance, a stock nearly always looks too high to the financially untrained. This client demonstrated another risk to those who follow the practice of selling shares that still have unusual growth prospects simply because they have realized a good gain and the stock appears temporarily overpriced. These investors seldom buy back at higher prices when they are wrong and lose further gains of dramatic proportions.
        - At the risk of being repetitious, let me underscore my belief that **the short-term price movements are so inherently tricky to predict that I do not believe it possible to play the in and out game and still make the enormous profits that have accrued again and again to the truly longterm holder of the right stocks.**
        - **Mainly confine investments to non-dividend-paying companies with strong earning power and with attractive places to reinvest their earnings.**       
        
    - **Is the Market Efficient?**
        - All of these ten-year periods essentially resembled the others in that the greatest opportunities came from finding situations that were extremely attractive but that were undervalued because at that particular moment the financial community had significantly misjudged the situation.    
    
    - **Investment philosophy summary:**
        - Buy into companies that have disciplined plans for achieving dramatic long-range growth in profits and that have inherent qualities making it difficult for newcomers to share in that growth.
        - Focus on buying these companies when they are out of favor; that is, when, either because of general market conditions or because the financial community at the moment has misconceptions of its true worth, the stock is selling at prices well under what it will be when its true merit is better understood.
        - Hold the stock until either (a) there has been a fundamental change in its nature (such as a weakening of management through changed personnel), or (b) it has grown to a point where it no longer will be growing faster than the economy as a whole. Only in the most exceptional circumstances, if ever, sell because of forecasts as to what the economy or the stock market is going to do, because these changes are too difficult to predict. Never sell the most attractive stocks you own for short-term reasons. However, as companies grow, remember that many companies that are quite efficiently run when they are small fail to change management style to meet the different requirements of skill big companies need. When management fails to grow as companies grow, shares should be sold. 
        - For those primarily seeking major appreciation of their capital, de-emphasize the importance of dividends. The most attractive opportunities are most likely to occur in the profitable, but low or no dividend payout groups. Unusual opportunities are much less likely to be found in situations where high percentage of profits is paid to stockholders.
        - Making some mistakes is as much an inherent cost of investing for major gains as making some bad loans is inevitable in even the best run and most profitable lending institution. The important thing is to recognize them as soon as possible, to understand their causes, and to learn how to keep from repeating the mistakes. Willingness to take small losses in some stocks and to let profits grow bigger and bigger in the more promising stocks is a sign of good investment management. Taking small profits in good investments and letting losses grow in bad ones is a sign of abominable investment judgment. A profit should never be taken just for the satisfaction of taking it.
        - There are a relatively small number of truly outstanding companies. Their shares frequently can’t be bought at attractive prices. Therefore, when favorable prices exist, full advantage should be taken of the situation. Funds should be concentrated in the most desirable opportunities. For those involved in venture capital and quite small companies, say with annual sales of under $25,000,000, more diversification may be necessary. For larger companies, proper diversification requires investing in a variety of industries with different economic characteristics. For individuals (in possible contrast to institutions and certain types of funds), any holding of over twenty different stocks is a sign of financial incompetence. Ten or twelve is usually a better number. Sometimes the costs of the capital gains tax may justify taking several years to complete a move toward concentration. As an individual’s holdings climb toward as many as twenty stocks, it nearly always is desirable to switch from the least attractive of these stocks to more of the attractive. It should be remembered that ERISA stands for Emasculated Results: Insufficient Sophisticated Action.
        - A basic ingredient of outstanding common stock management is the ability neither to accept blindly whatever may be the dominant opinion in the financial community at the moment nor to reject the prevailing view just to be contrary for the sake of being contrary. Rather, it is to have more knowledge and to apply better judgment, in thorough evaluation of specific situations, and the moral courage to act “in opposition to the crowd” when your judgment tells you you are right.
        - In handling common stocks, as in most other fields of human activity, success greatly depends on a combination of hard work, intelligence, and honesty.
        
    - **FUNCTIONAL FACTORS**
        - The firm must be one of the lowest-cost producers of its products or services relative to its competition, and must promise to remain so.  
          a. A comparatively low breakeven will enable this firm to survive depressed market conditions and to strengthen its market and pricing position when weaker competitors are driven out of the market.   
          b. A higher than average profit margin enables the firm to generate more funds internally to sustain growth without as much dilution caused by equity sales or strain caused by overdependence on fixed-income financing.
        - A firm must have a strong enough customer orientation to recognize changes in customer needs and interests and then to react promptly to those changes in an appropriate manner. This capability should lead to generating a flow of new products that more than offset lines maturing or becoming obsolete.
        - Effective marketing requires not only understanding of what customers want, but also explaining to them (through advertising, selling or other means) in terms the customer will understand. Close control and constant monitoring of the cost/effectiveness of market efforts are required.
        - Even nontechnical firms today require a strong and well-directed research capability to    
          (a) produce newer and better products, and 
          (b) perform services in a more effective or efficient way.
        - There are wide differences in the effectiveness of research. Two important elements of more productive research are    
          (a) market/ profit consciousness, and     
          (b) the ability to pool necessary talent into an effective working team.
        - A firm with a strong financial team has several important advantages: 
           a. Good cost information enables management to direct its energies toward those products with the highest potential for profit contribution.  
           b. The cost system should pinpoint where production, marketing, and research costs are inefficient even in sub-parts of the operation.    
           c. Capital conservation through tight control of fixed and working capital investments.   
        - A critical finance function is to provide an early warning system to identify influences that could threaten the profit plan sufficiently ahead of time to devise remedial plans to minimize adverse surprises.  
        
    - **PEOPLE FACTORS**
        - To become more successful, a firm needs a leader with a determined entrepreneurial personality combining the drive, the original ideas, and the skills necessary to build the fortunes of the firm.
        - A growth-oriented chief executive must surround himself with an extremely competent team and to delegate considerable authority to them to run the activities of the firm. Teamwork, as distinct from dysfunction struggles for power, is critical.
        - Attention must be paid to attracting competent managers at lower levels and to training them for larger responsibilities. Succession should largely be from the available talent pool. The need to recruit the chief executive from outside is a particularly dangerous sign.
        - The entrepreneurial spirit must permeate the organization.
        - More successful firms usually have some unique personality traits—some special ways of doing things that are particularly effective for their management team. This is a positive not a negative sign.
        - Management must recognize and be attuned to the fact that the world in which they are operating is changing at an ever increasing rate. 
          a. E very accepted way of doing things must be reexamined periodically, and new, better ways sought.  
          b. C hanges in managerial approaches involve necessary risks, which must be recognized, minimized and taken.    
        - There must be a genuine, realistic, conscious and continuous effort to have employees at every level, including the blue collar workers, believe that their company is really a good place to work. 
          a. E mployees must be treated with reasonable dignity and decency.  
          b. The firm’s work environment and benefits programs should be supportive of motivation.  
          c. People must feel they can express grievances without fear and with reasonable expectation of appropriate attention and action.   
          d. P articipatory programs seem to work well and be an important source of good ideas.
        - Management must be willing to submit to the disciplines required of sound growth. Growth requires some sacrifice of current profits to lay the foundation for worthwhile future improvement.      
     
    - **BUSINESS CHARACTERISTICS**
        - Although managers rely heavily on return of assets in considering new investments, investors must recognize that historic assets stated at historic costs distort comparisons of firms’ performance. Favorable profit to sales ratios, notwithstanding differences in turnover ratios, may be a better indicator of the safety of an investment, particularly in an inflationary environment.
        - High margins attract competition, and competition erodes profit opportunities. The best way to mute competition is to operate so efficiently that there is no incentive left for the potential entrant.
        - Efficiencies of scale are often counterbalanced by the inefficiencies of bureaucratic layers of middle management. In a well-run firm, however, the industry leadership position creates a strong competitive advantage that should be attractive to investors.
        - Getting there first in a new product market is a long step toward becoming first. Some firms are better geared to be there first.
        - Products are not islands. There is an indirect competition, for example, for consumers’ dollars. As prices change, some products may lose attractiveness even in well-run, low-cost companies.
        - It is hard to introduce new, superior products in market arenas where established competitors already have a strong position. While the new entrant is building the production, marketing power, and reputation to be competitive, existing competitors can take strong defensive actions to regain the market threatened. Innovators have a better chance of success if they combine technology disciplines, e.g., electronics and nucleonics, in a way that is novel relative to existing competitive competencies.
        - Technology is just one avenue to industry leadership. Developing a consumer “franchise” is another. Service excellence is still another. Whatever the case, a strong ability to defend established markets against new competitors is essential for a sound investment.    