- ***Introduction:***
    - Investing, like economics, is more art than science.
    - The subtext here is that you must be patient and give yourself ample time—you’re not looking for short-term windfalls but for long-term, steady returns
    - Would-be investors can take courses in finance and accounting, read widely and, if they are fortunate, receive mentoring from someone with a deep understanding of the investment process. But only a few of them will achieve the superior insight, intuition, sense of value and awareness of psychology that are required for consistently above-average results. Doing so requires second-level thinking.
    - Remember, your goal in investing isn’t to earn average returns; you want to do better than average. Thus, your thinking has to be better than that of others—both more powerful and at a higher level. Since other investors may be smart, well-informed and highly computerized, you must find an edge they don’t have. You must think of something they haven’t thought of, see things they miss or bring insight they don’t possess. You have to react differently and behave differently. In short, being right may be a necessary condition for investment success, but it won’t be sufficient. You must be more right than others … which by definition means your thinking has to be different.
    - **First-level thinking** is simplistic and superficial, and just about everyone can do it (a bad sign for anything involving an attempt at superiority). All the first-level thinker needs is an opinion about the future, as in “The outlook for the company is favorable, meaning the stock will go up.”
      **Second-level thinking** is deep, complex and convoluted. The secondlevel thinker takes a great many things into account:      
        - What is the range of likely future outcomes?
        - Which outcome do I think will occur?
        - What’s the probability I’m right?
        - What does the consensus think?
        - How does my expectation differ from the consensus?
        - How does the current price for the asset comport with the consensus view of the future, and with mine?
        - Is the consensus psychology that’s incorporated in the price too bullish or bearish?
        - What will happen to the asset’s price if the consensus turns out to be right, and what if I’m right?
    - **First-level thinking:** “It’s a good company; let’s buy the stock.”     
      **Second-level thinking:** “It’s a good company, but everyone thinks it’s a great company, and it’s not. So the stock’s overrated and overpriced; let’s sell.”  
    - First-level thinkers think the same way other first-level thinkers do about the same things, and they generally reach the same conclusions. By definition, this can’t be the route to superior results. All investors can’t beat the market since, collectively, they are the market.
    - Before trying to compete in the zero-sum world of investing, you must ask yourself whether you have good reason to expect to be in the top half. To outperform the average investor, you have to be able to outthink the consensus. Are you capable of doing so? What makes you think so? Why others fail? Is there a problem with their time horizons? Are their incentive systems flawed or inappropriate?
    - You can’t do the same things others do and expect to outperform.           
       
      | Outcomes     | Conventional Behaviour | Unconventional Behaviour|
      | :---         |    :----:              |          ---:           |
      | Favourable   | Average good results   | Above average results   |
      | Unfavourable | Average bad results    | Below average results   |                                                                                                    
    
    - The upshot is simple: **to achieve superior investment results, you have to hold nonconsensus views regarding value, and they have to be accurate. That’s not easy.**
    
- ***Understanding Market Efficiency:***
    - I agree that because investors work hard to evaluate every new piece of information, asset prices immediately reflect the consensus view of the information’s significance. I do not, however, believe the consensus view is necessarily correct. In January 2000, Yahoo sold at $237. In April 2001 it was at $11. Anyone who argues that the market was right both times has his or her head in the clouds; it has to have been wrong on at least one of those occasions. But that doesn’t mean many investors were able to detect and act on the market’s error. If prices in efficient markets already reflect the consensus, then sharing the consensus view will make you likely to earn just an average return. To beat the market you must hold an idiosyncratic, or nonconsensus, view. 
    - Once in a while we experience periods when everything goes well and riskier investments deliver the higher returns they seem to promise. Those halcyon periods lull people into believing that to get higher returns, all they have to do is make riskier investments. But they ignore something that is easily forgotten in good times: this can’t be true, because if riskier investments could be counted on to produce higher returns, they wouldn’t be riskier.

- ***Value:***
    - For investing to be reliably successful, an accurate estimate of intrinsic value is the indispensable starting point. Without it, any hope for consistent success as an investor is just that: hope.
    - an accurate estimate of value is the indispensable starting point.
    - all approaches to investing in company securities can be divided into two basic types: those based on analysis of the company’s attributes, known as “fundamentals,” and those based on study of the price behavior of the securities themselves("Technical analysis").
    - Technical analysis, or the study of past stock price behavior, has been practiced ever since I joined the industry (and well before that), but it’s been in decline. Today observations about historic price patterns may be used to supplement fundamental analysis.
    - Two approaches, both driven by fundamentals: value investing and growth investing. In a nutshell, value investors aim to come up with a security’s current intrinsic value and buy when the price is lower, and growth investors try to find securities whose value will increase rapidly in the future.        
    - To value investors, an asset isn’t an ephemeral concept you invest in because you think it’s attractive (or think others will find it attractive). It’s a tangible object that should have an intrinsic value capable of being ascertained, and if it can be bought below its intrinsic value, you might consider doing so. Thus, intelligent investing has to be built on estimates of intrinsic value. Those estimates must be derived rigorously, based on all of the available information. **This estimate of value includes an estimate for future growth in earnings or cash flow.**
    - **The emphasis in value investing is on tangible factors like hard assets and cash flows.** Intangibles like talent, popular fashions and long-term growth potential are given less weight. Certain strains of value investing focus exclusively on hard assets. There’s even something called **“net-net investing,”** in which people buy when the total market value of a company’s stock is less than the amount by which the company’s current assets—such as cash, receivables and inventories—exceed its total liabilities.  
    - The quest in value investing is for cheapness. Value investors typically look at financial metrics such as earnings, cash flow, dividends, hard assets and enterprise value and emphasize buying cheap on these bases. The primary goal of value investors, then, is to quantify the company’s current value and buy its securities when they can do so cheaply.
    - Growth investing lies somewhere between the dull plodding of value investing and the adrenaline charge of momentum investing. Its goal is to identify companies with bright futures. That means by definition that there’s less emphasis on the company’s current attributes and more on its potential.
    - The difference between the two principal schools of investing can be boiled down to this:   
      - Value investors buy stocks (even those whose intrinsic value may show little growth in the future) out of conviction that the current value is high relative to the current price.  
      - Growth investors buy stocks (even those whose current value is low relative to their current price) because they believe the value will grow fast enough in the future to produce substantial appreciation.
      Thus, it seems to me, the choice isn’t really between value and growth, but between value today and value tomorrow. 
    - One of Buffett’s major contributions has been to extend the idea of value beyond the simply “cheap.” Buffett looks for “good” businesses that are available at an attractive price. The concept of growth is incorporated into the calculation of value.
    - Unless you buy at the exact bottom tick (which is next to impossible), you will be down at some point after you make every investment. Let’s say you figure out that something’s worth 80 and have a chance to buy it for 60(“buying dollars for fifty cents). So you buy it and you feel you’ve done a good thing. But don’t expect immediate success. In fact, you’ll often find that you’ve bought in the midst of a decline that continues. Pretty soon you’ll be looking at losses. And as one of the greatest investment adages reminds us, “Being too far ahead of your time is indistinguishable from being wrong.” So now that security worth 80 is priced at 50 instead of 60. What do you do?            
    - We learn in Microeconomics 101 that the demand curve slopes downward to the right; as the price of something goes up, the quantity demanded goes down. In other words, people want less of something at higher prices and more of it at lower prices. Makes sense; that’s why stores do more business when goods go on sale.
    - Investors with no knowledge of (or concern for) profits, dividends, valuation or the conduct of business simply cannot possess the resolve needed to do the right thing at the right time. With everyone around them buying and making money, they can’t know when a stock is too high and therefore resist joining in. And with a market in freefall, they can’t possibly have the confidence needed to hold or buy at severely reduced prices.
    - An accurate estimate of intrinsic value is the essential foundation for steady, unemotional and potentially profitable investing.
      **Value investors score their biggest gains when they buy an underpriced asset, average down unfailingly and have their analysis proved out.** Thus, there are two essential ingredients for profit in a declining market: 
         1. **you have to have a view on intrinsic value**, and 
         2. **you have to hold that view strongly enough to be able to hang in and buy even as price declines suggest that you’re wrong**. 
         3. Oh yes, there’s a third: **you have to be right**.                                                                                  
    
- ***The Most Important Thing Is The Relationship Between Price and Value***           
    - Let’s say you’ve become convinced of the efficacy of value investing and you’re able to come up with an estimate of intrinsic value for a stock or other asset. Let’s even say your estimate is right. You’re not done. In order to know what action to take, you have to look at the asset’s price relative to its value. Establishing a healthy relationship between fundamentals—value—and price is at the core of successful investing.
    - For a value investor, price has to be the starting point. It has been demonstrated time and time again that no asset is so good that it can’t become a bad investment if bought at too high a price. And there are few assets so bad that they can’t be a good investment when bought cheap enough.
    - If your estimate of intrinsic value is correct, over time an asset’s price should converge with its value.
    - What should a prospective buyer be looking at to be sure the price is right? Underlying fundamental value, of course, but most of the time a security’s price will be affected at least as much—and its **short-term fluctuations determined primarily—by two other factors: psychology and technicals.**         
        - Most investors and certainly most nonprofessionals know little about technicals.
        - the second factor that exerts such a powerful influence on price: psychology. It’s impossible to overstate how important this is. Whereas the key to ascertaining value is skilled financial analysis, the key to understanding the price/value relationship—and the outlook for it— lies largely in insight into other investors’ minds. Investor psychology can cause a security to be priced just about anywhere in the short run, regardless the fundamentals.                                                                           
        - The discipline that is most important is not accounting or
         economics, but psychology. **This is yet another area that is of critical importance and extremely hard to master.**
    - The biggest losers—be they Nifty-Fifty stocks in 1969, Internet stocks in 1999, or mortgage vehicles in 2006—had something in common: no one could find a flaw. There are lots of ways to describe this condition: “priced for perfection,” “on the pedestal of popularity,” and “nothing can go wrong.” Nothing’s perfect, however, and everything eventually turns out to have flaws. When you pay for perfection, you don’t get what you expected, and the high price you pay exposes you to risk of loss when reality comes to light. This is truly one of the riskiest things.
    - First, psychology is elusive. And second, the psychological factors that weigh on other investors’ minds and influence their actions will weigh on yours as well. These forces tend to cause people to do the opposite of what a superior investor must do. For self-protection, then, you must invest the time and energy to understand market psychology.        
    - **“The human side of investing” is the critical side. It’s certainly an area in which superior investors must excel, since financial analysis won’t guarantee superior performance if your reactions to developments are skewed by psychology just like those of others. Thus my third key theme relates to control over emotion and ego. Accomplishing this is quite difficult, since everything in the investing environment conspires to make investors do the wrong thing at the wrong time. We’re all only human, so the challenge is to perform better than other investors even though we start with the same wiring.**        
    - Fear of looking wrong: It comes as quite a shock to many new investors how long it can take for even correct judgments to work out. One of the most important roles of your strong view of intrinsic value is as a foundation for conviction: to help you hang in until the market comes to agree with you and prices the asset where it should.  
    - Consider the possible routes to investment profit:
      - **Benefiting from a rise in the asset’s intrinsic value:** The problem is that increases in value are hard to predict accurately. Further, the conventional view of the potential for increase is usually baked into the asset’s price, meaning that unless your view is different from the consensus and superior, it’s likely you’re already paying for the potential improvement.
      - **Applying leverage:** Here the problem is that using leverage—buying with borrowed money—doesn’t make anything a better investment or increase the probability of gains. It merely magnifies whatever gains or losses may materialize. And it introduces the risk of ruin if a portfolio fails to satisfy a contractual value test and lenders can demand their money back at a time when prices and illiquidity are depressed. Over the years leverage has been associated with high returns, but also with the most spectacular meltdowns and crashes.
      - **Selling for more than your asset’s worth:** Everyone hopes a buyer will come along who’s willing to overpay for what they have for sale. But certainly the hoped-for arrival of this sucker can’t be counted on. Unlike having an underpriced asset move to its fair value, expecting appreciation on the part of a fairly priced or overpriced asset requires irrationality on the part of buyers that absolutely cannot be considered dependable.
      - **Buying something for less than its value:** In my opinion, this is what it’s all about—the most dependable way to make money. Buying at a discount from intrinsic value and having the asset’s price move toward its value doesn’t require serendipity; it just requires that market participants wake up to reality. When the market’s functioning properly, value exerts a magnetic pull on price.  

- ***The Most Important Thing Is Understanding Risk***
    - Investing consists of exactly one thing: dealing with the future. And because none of us can know the future with certainty, risk is inescapable. Thus, dealing with risk is an essential—I think the essential element in investing. It’s not hard to find investments that might go up. If you can find enough of these, you’ll have moved in the right direction. But you’re unlikely to succeed for long if you haven’t dealt explicitly with risk. The first step consists of understanding it. The second step is recognizing when it’s high. The critical final step is controlling it.
        1. First, risk is a bad thing, and most level-headed people want to avoid or minimize it. It is an underlying assumption in financial theory that people are naturally risk-averse, meaning they’d rather take less risk than more. Thus, for starters, an investor considering a given investment has to make judgments about how risky it is and whether he or she can live with the absolute quantum of risk.
        2. Second, when you’re considering an investment, your decision should be a function of the risk entailed as well as the potential return. Because of their dislike for risk, investors have to be bribed with higher prospective returns to take incremental risks. Put simply, if both a U.S. Treasury note and small company stock appeared likely to return 7 percent per year, everyone would rush to buy the former (driving up its price and reducing its prospective return) and dump the latter (driving down its price and thus increasing its return). This process of adjusting relative prices, which economists call equilibration, is supposed to render prospective returns proportional to risk.                                                                                   
        3. Third, when you consider investment results, the return means only so much by itself; the risk taken has to be assessed as well. Was the return achieved in safe instruments or risky ones? In fixed income securities or stocks? In large, established companies or smaller, shakier ones? In liquid stocks and bonds or illiquid private placements? With help from leverage or without it? In a concentrated portfolio or a diversified one? 
    - A “capital market line” that slopes upward to the right, indicating the positive relationship between risk and return. Markets set themselves up so that riskier assets appear to offer higher returns. If that weren’t the case, who would buy them? The familiar graph of the risk-return relationship is elegant in its simplicity. Unfortunately, many have drawn from it an erroneous conclusion that gets them into trouble.
      Especially in good times, far too many people can be overheard saying, “Riskier investments provide higher returns. If you want to make more money, the answer is to take more risk.” But riskier investments absolutely cannot be counted on to deliver higher returns. Why not? It’s simple: if riskier investments reliably produced higher returns, they wouldn’t be riskier!    
    - In order to attract capital, riskier investments have to offer the prospect of higher returns, or higher promised returns, or higher expected returns. But there’s absolutely nothing to say those higher prospective returns have to materialize.  
    - **Riskier investments are those for which the outcome is less certain. That is, the probability distribution of returns is wider. When priced fairly, riskier investments should entail:**
      - **higher expected returns,**
      - **the possibility of lower returns, and**
      - **in some cases the possibility of losses(PERMANENT LOSS OF CAPITAL).**
    - According to the academicians who developed capital market theory, risk equals volatility, because volatility indicates the unreliability of an investment. **I take great issue with this definition of risk.** I just don’t think volatility is the risk most investors care about. Rather than volatility, I think people decline to make investments primarily because they’re worried about a loss of capital or an unacceptably low return. To me, “I need more upside potential because I’m afraid I could lose money” makes an awful lot more sense than “I need more upside potential because I’m afraid the price may fluctuate.” No, I’m sure “risk” is—first and foremost—the likelihood of losing money.
    - **The risk of permanent capital loss is the only risk to worry about.**                                                                                                                                                 
    - Some other risks are:-
      1. Falling short of one’s goal
      2. Underperformance   
      3. Career risk
      4. Unconventionality
      5. Illiquidity
    - what gives rise to the risk of loss:
      1. Risk of loss does not necessarily stem from weak fundamentals.
      2. Risk can be present even without weakness in the macroenvironment. The combination of arrogance, failure to understand and allow for risk, and a small adverse development can be enough to wreak havoc. Mostly it comes down to psychology that’s too positive and thus prices that are too high. Investors tend to associate exciting stories and pizzazz with high potential returns. They also expect high returns from things that have been doing well lately. These souped-up investments may deliver on people’s expectations for a while, but they certainly entail high risk.
    - How to measure risk?
      1. "the relation between different kinds of investments and the risk of loss is entirely too indefinite, and too variable with changing conditions, to permit of sound mathematical formulation." - Ben Graham, Security Analysis                
      2. The bottom line is that, looked at prospectively, much of risk is subjective, hidden and unquantifiable.
      3. Skillful investors can get a sense for the risk present in a given situation. They make that judgment primarily based on (a) the stability and dependability of value and (b) the relationship between price and value. Other things will enter into their thinking, but most will be subsumed under these two.
      4. Given the difficulty of quantifying the probability of loss, investors who want some objective measure of risk-adjusted return—and they are many —can only look to the so-called Sharpe ratio. This is the ratio of a portfolio’s excess return (its return above the “riskless rate,” or the rate on short-term Treasury bills) to the standard deviation of the return.
      5. Understanding uncertainty: The possibility of a variety of outcomes means we mustn’t think of the future in terms of a single result but rather as a range of possibilities. The best we can do is fashion a probability distribution that summarizes the possibilities and describes their relative likelihood. We must think about the full range, not just the ones that are most likely to materialize. Some of the greatest losses arise when investors ignore the improbable possibilities.
      6. “There’s a big difference between probability and outcome. Probable things fail to happen—and improbable things happen—all the time.” That’s one of the most important things you can know about investment risk.
      7. Understanding uncertainty: Investing requires us to make decisions about the future. Usually we do so by assuming it will bear a resemblance to the past. But that’s far from saying outcomes will be distributed the same as always. Unusual and unlikely things can happen, and outcomes can occur in runs (and go to extremes) that are hard to predict. Underestimating uncertainty and its consequences is a big contributor to investor difficulty.

- ***The Most Important Thing Is Recognizing Risk***
    - The received wisdom is that risk increases in the recessions and falls in booms. In contrast, it may be more helpful to think of risk as increasing during upswings, as financial imbalances build up, and materializing in recessions.                     
    - Risk means uncertainty about which outcome will occur and about the possibility of loss when the unfavorable ones do.
    - Great investing requires both generating returns and controlling risk. And recognizing risk is an absolute prerequisite for controlling it.
    - The riskiest things: The greatest risk doesn’t come from low quality or high volatility. It comes from paying prices that are too high. This isn’t a theoretical risk; it’s very real. Paying too much is a great way to lose money regardless of other measures of risk, such as volatility or degree of diversification.
    - Whereas the theorist thinks return and risk are two separate things, albeit correlated, the value investor thinks of high risk and low prospective return as nothing but two sides of the same coin, both stemming primarily from high prices. **That is, high price both increases risk and lowers returns.**
    - The riskiest things: Too-high prices come from investor psychology that’s too positive, and too-high investor sentiment often stems from a dearth of risk aversion. Risk-averse investors are conscious of the potential for loss and demand compensation for bearing it—in the form of reasonable prices. When investors aren’t sufficiently risk averse, they’ll pay prices that are too high.
    - The riskiest things: “There are few things as risky as the widespread belief that there’s no risk.” The opening words of this paragraph are valuable because they highlight an excellent example of the ways investors’ behavior creates the risks to which they are subjected. When they swallow worry-free beliefs, it truly is the riskiest thing.
    - The riskiest things: A few times in my career, I’ve seen the rise of a belief that risk has been banished, cycles won’t occur any longer, or the laws of economics have been suspended. The experienced, risk-conscious investor takes this as a sign of great danger.
    - The risk-is-gone myth is one of the most dangerous sources of risk, and a major contributor to any bubble.
    - but with the riskless rate(interest rate) starting point at 1+ percent, now4 percent is the right rate for the ten-year (not 6 percent). They won’t go into stocks unless they get 6 to 7 percent. And junk bonds may not be worth it at yields below 7 percent. Real estate has to yield 8 percent or so. For buyouts to be attractive they have to appear to promise 15 percent, and so on. Thus, we now have a capital market line, which is (a) at a much lower level and (b) much flatter. The lower level of the line is explained by the low interest rates, the starting point for which is the low riskless rate.
    - Risk arises as investor behavior alters the market. Investors bid up assets, accelerating into the present appreciation that otherwise would have occurred in the future, and thus lowering prospective returns. And as their psychology strengthens and they become bolder and less worried, investors cease to demand adequate risk premiums. The ultimate irony lies in the fact that the reward for taking incremental risk shrinks as more people move to take it.
    - Thus, the market is not a static arena in which investors operate. It is responsive, shaped by investors’ own behavior. Their increasing confidence creates more that they should worry about, just as their rising fear and risk aversion combine to widen risk premiums at the same time as they reduce risk. I call this the **“perversity of risk.”**
    - I’m firmly convinced that investment risk resides most where it is least perceived, and vice versa:
      1. When everyone believes something is risky, their unwillingness to buy usually reduces its price to the point where it’s not risky at all. Broadly negative opinion can make it the least risky thing, since all optimism has been driven out of its price.
      2. And, of course, as demonstrated by the experience of Nifty Fifty investors, when everyone believes something embodies no risk, they usually bid it up to the point where it’s enormously risky. No risk is feared, and thus no reward for risk bearing—no “risk premium”—is demanded or provided. That can make the thing that’s most esteemed the riskiest. 
    - This paradox exists because most investors think quality, as opposed to price, is the determinant of whether something’s risky. But high quality assets can be risky, and low quality assets can be safe. It’s just a matter of the price paid for them. … Elevated popular opinion, then, isn’t just the source of low return potential, but also of high risk.
   
- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Controlling Risk***
    - Outstanding investors, in my opinion, are distinguished at least as much for their ability to control risk as they are for generating return. High absolute return is much more recognizable and titillating than superior risk-adjusted performance. That’s why it’s high-returning investors who get their pictures in the papers.
    - Great investors are those who take risks that are less than commensurate with the returns they earn. They may produce moderate returns with low risk, or high returns with moderate risk. But achieving high returns with high risk means very little—unless you can do it for many years, in which case that perceived “high risk” either wasn’t really high or was exceptionally well managed.                                                                                                                                                   
    - Whatever few awards are presented for risk control, they’re never given out in good times. The reason is that risk is covert, invisible. Risk—the possibility of loss—is not observable. What is observable is loss, and loss generally happens only when risk collides with negative events. For example, Homes in California may or may not have construction flaws that would make them collapse during earthquakes. We find out only when earthquakes occur. Likewise, loss is what happens when risk meets adversity. Risk is the potential for loss if things go wrong. As long as things go well, loss does not arise. Risk gives rise to loss only when negative events occur in the environment.   
    - Most observers think the advantage of inefficient markets lies in the fact that a manager can take the same risk as a benchmark, for example, and earn a superior rate of return. **An inefficient market can also allow a skilled investor to achieve the same return as the benchmark while taking less risk, and I think this is a great accomplishment.**  
    - Bearing risk unknowingly can be a huge mistake, but it’s what those who buy the securities that are all the rage and most highly esteemed at a particular point in time—to which “nothing bad can possibly happen”—repeatedly do. On the other hand, the intelligent acceptance of recognized risk for profit underlies some of the wisest, most profitable investments—even though (or perhaps due to the fact that) most investors dismiss them as dangerous speculations. When you boil it all down, it’s the investor’s job to intelligently bear risk for profit.
    - Risk control is the best route to loss avoidance. Risk avoidance, on the other hand, is likely to lead to return avoidance as well.
    - The road to long-term investment success runs through risk control more than through aggressiveness. Over a full career, most investors’ results will be determined more by how many losers they have, and how bad they are, than by the greatness of their winners. The math behind the compounding of negative returns helps ensure this outcome (e.g., a 40 percent loss in one year requires a return of 67 percent to fully recover).
    
- ***The Most Important Thing Is Being Attentive to Cycles***     
    - However, there are two concepts we can hold to with confidence:  
       • Rule 1: **most things will prove to be cyclical.**
       • Rule 2: **some of the greatest opportunities for gain and loss come when other people forget rule number one.**
    - The basic reason for the cyclicality in our world is the involvement of humans. Mechanical things can go in a straight line. Time moves ahead continuously. So can a machine when it’s adequately powered. But processes in fields like history and economics involve people, and when people are involved, the results are variable and cyclical. The main reason for this, I think, is that people are emotional and inconsistent, not steady and clinical.
    - Cycles are self-correcting, and their reversal is not necessarily dependent on exogenous events. They reverse (rather than going on forever) because trends create the reasons for their own reversal. Thus, I like to say success carries within itself the seeds of failure, and failure the seeds of success.
    - The credit cycle deserves a very special mention for its inevitability, extreme volatility and ability to create opportunities for investors attuned to it. It takes only a small fluctuation in the economy to produce a large fluctuation in the availability of credit, with great impact on asset prices and back on the economy itself. The process is simple:
      - The economy moves into a period of prosperity.
      - Providers of capital thrive, increasing their capital base.
      - Because bad news is scarce, the risks entailed in lending and investing seem to have shrunk.
      - Risk averseness disappears.
      - Financial institutions move to expand their businesses—that is, to provide more capital.
      - They compete for market share by lowering demanded returns (e.g., cutting interest rates), lowering credit standards, providing more capital for a given transaction and easing covenants.
      This leads to capital destruction—that is, to investment of capital in projects where the cost of capital exceeds the return on capital, and eventually to cases where there is no return of capital. When this point is reached, the up-leg described above—the rising part of the cycle—is reversed.
      - Losses cause lenders to become discouraged and shy away.
      - Risk averseness rises, and along with it, interest rates, credit restrictions and covenant requirements.
      - Less capital is made available—and at the trough of the cycle, only to the most qualified of borrowers, if anyone.
      - Companies become starved for capital. Borrowers are unable to roll over their debts, leading to defaults and bankruptcies.
      - This process contributes to and reinforces the economic contraction.
      Of course, at the extreme the process is ready to be reversed again. Because the competition to make loans or investments is low, high returns can be demanded along with high creditworthiness.
    - We conclude that most of the time, the future will look a lot like the past, with both up cycles and down cycles. There is a right time to argue that things will be better, and that’s when the market is on its backside and everyone else is selling things at giveaway prices.
    - The riskiest things: When things are going well, extrapolation introduces great risk. Whether it’s company profitability, capital availability, price gains, or market liquidity, things that inevitably are bound to regress toward the mean are often counted on to improve forever. 
- ***The Most Important Thing Is Awareness of the Pendulum***                                                                            
    - Investment markets follow a pendulum-like swing:
      - between euphoria and depression,
      - between celebrating positive developments and obsessing over negatives, and thus
      - between overpriced and underpriced.
      - between risk tolerance and risk aversion
      This oscillation is one of the most dependable features of the investment world, and investor psychology seems to spend much more time at the extremes than it does at a “happy medium.”
    - In fact, I’ve recently boiled down the main risks in investing to two: the risk of losing money and the risk of missing opportunity. It’s possible to largely eliminate either one, but not both. In an ideal world, investors would balance these two concerns. But from time to time, at the extremes of the pendulum’s swing, one or the other predominates.
    - The three stages of a bull market:
      - The first, when a few forward-looking people begin to believe things will get better
      - The second, when most investors realize improvement is actually taking place
      - The third, when everyone concludes things will get better forever  
    - The riskiest things: The ultimate danger zone is reached when investors are in agreement that things can only get better forever. That makes no sense, but most people fall for it. It’s what creates bubbles—just as the opposite produces crashes.
    - the three stages of a bear market:
      - The first, when just a few thoughtful investors recognize that, despite the prevailing bullishness, things won’t always be rosy
      - The second, when most investors recognize things are deteriorating
      - The third, when everyone’s convinced things can only get worse    
    - The swing back from the extreme is usually more rapid—and thus takes much less time—than the swing to the extreme. (The air goes out of the balloon much faster than it went in.)
   
- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Combating Negative Influences***   
    - **Inefficiencies**—mispricings, misperceptions, mistakes that other people make—provide potential opportunities for superior performance. Exploiting them is, in fact, the only road to consistent outperformance. To distinguish yourself from the others, you need to be on the right side of those mistakes.
    - **Emotion and ego:** Psychological influences have great power over investors. Most succumb, permitting investor psychology to determine the swings of the market. When those forces push markets to extremes of bubble or crash, they create opportunities for superior investors to augment their results by refusing to hold at the highs and by insisting on buying at the lows. Resisting the inimical forces is an absolute requirement.
    - The first emotion that serves to undermine investors’ efforts is the desire for money, especially as it morphs into greed. 
    - The counterpart of greed is fear—the second psychological factor we must consider. In the investment world the term doesn’t mean logical, sensible risk aversion. Rather, fear—like greed—connotes excess. Fear, then, is more like panic. Fear is overdone concern that prevents investors from taking constructive action when they should.
    - Thus, the third factor I want to discuss is people’s tendency to dismiss logic, history and time-honored norms. This tendency makes people accept unlikely propositions that have the potential to make them rich … if only they held water. Charlie Munger gave me a great quotation on this subject, from Demosthenes: “Nothing is easier than self-deceit. For what each man wishes, that he also believes to be true.” The belief that some fundamental limiter is no longer valid—and thus historic notions of fair value no longer matter—is invariably at the core of every bubble and consequent crash.      
    - The fourth psychological contributor to investor error is the tendency to conform to the view of the herd rather than resist—even when the herd’s view is clearly cockeyed.
    - The fifth psychological influence is envy. However negative the force of greed might be, always spurring people to strive for more and more, the impact is even stronger when they compare themselves to others. This is one of the most harmful aspects of what we call human nature.
    - The sixth key influence is ego. It can be enormously challenging to remain objective and calculating in the face of facts like these:
      - Investment results are evaluated and compared in the short run.
      - Incorrect, even imprudent, decisions to bear increased risk generally lead to the best returns in good times (and most times are good times).
      - The best returns bring the greatest ego rewards. When things go right, it’s fun to feel smart and have others agree.      
    - Emotion and ego: Investing—especially poor investing—is a world full of ego. Since risk bearing is rewarded in rising markets, ego can make investors behave aggressively in order to stand out through the achievement of lofty results. But the best investors I know seek stellar risk-adjusted returns … not celebrity. **The road to investment success is usually marked by humility, not ego.**
    - As an overpriced stock goes even higher or an underpriced stock continues to cheapen, it should get easier to do the right thing: sell the former and buy the latter. But it doesn’t. The tendency toward self-doubt combines with news of other people’s successes to form a powerful force that makes investors do the wrong thing, and it gains additional strength as these trends go on longer. It’s one more influence that must be fought.    
    - Fear of looking wrong: Assets become overpriced because of investor behavior that overrates their merit and carries them aloft. This process shouldn’t be expected to come to a halt when the price has risen to the “right” level or when you’ve sold it because you feel it’s priced too high. Usually, the freight train rumbles on quite a bit further, and price judgments are much more likely to look wrong at first than right. Although understandable, this can be very hard to live with.
    - The desire for more, the fear of missing out, the tendency to compare against others, the influence of the crowd and the dream of the sure thing these factors are near universal. Thus they have a profound collective impact on most investors and most markets. This is especially true at the market extremes. The result is mistakes—frequent, widespread, recurring, expensive mistakes.                                                                                         
    - To avoid losing money in bubbles, the key lies in refusing to join in when greed and human error cause positives to be wildly overrated and negatives to be ignored. Doing these things isn’t easy, and thus few people are able to abstain. In just the same way, it’s essential that investors avoid selling—and preferably should buy—when fear becomes excessive in a crash. (That reminds me to point out that **bubbles are capable of arising on their own and need not be preceded by crashes, whereas crashes are invariably preceded by bubbles**.)   
    - Emotion and ego: Refusing to join in the errors of the herd—like so much else in investing—requires control over psyche and ego. It’s the hardest thing, but the payoff can be enormous. Mastery over the human side of investing isn’t sufficient for success, but combining it with analytical proficiency can lead to great results.

- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Contrarianism***
    - There’s only one way to describe most investors: trend followers. Superior investors are the exact opposite. Superior investing, as I hope I’ve convinced you by now, requires second-level thinking—a way of thinking that’s different from that of others, more complex and more insightful. By definition, most of the crowd can’t share it.
    - Accepting the broad concept of contrarianism is one thing; putting it into practice is another because:
       - We never know how far the pendulum will swing, when it will reverse, and how far it will then go in the opposite direction.
       - We can be sure that, once it reaches an extreme position, the market eventually will swing back toward the midpoint (or beyond). Investors who believed that the pendulum would move in one direction forever—or, having reached an extreme, would stay there—are inevitably disappointed.
       - However, because of the variability of the many factors that influence markets, no tool—not even contrarianism—can be relied on completely.      
       - Contrarianism isn’t an approach that will make you money all of the time. Much of the time there aren’t great market excesses to bet against.
       - Even when an excess does develop, it’s important to remember that “overpriced” is incredibly different from “going down tomorrow.”
       - Markets can be over- or underpriced and stay that way—or become
         more so—for years.
       - It can be extremely painful when the trend is going against you.   
       - It can appear at times that “everyone” has reached the conclusion that the herd is wrong. What I mean is that contrarianism itself can appear to have become too popular, and thus contrarianism can be mistaken for herd behavior.
       - Finally, it’s not enough to bet against the crowd. Given the difficulties associated with contrarianism just mentioned, the potentially profitable recognition of divergences from consensus thinking must be based on reason and analysis. You must do things not just because they’re the opposite of what the crowd is doing, but because you know why the crowd is wrong. Only then will you be able to hold firmly to your views and perhaps buy more as your positions take on the appearance of mistakes and as losses accrue rather than gains.
    - **This is where it is particularly important to remember the teachings of Graham and Dodd. If you look to the markets for a report card, owning a stock that declines every day will make you feel like a failure. But if you remember that you own a fractional interest in a business and that every day you are able to buy in at a greater discount to underlying value, you might just be able to maintain a cheerful disposition. This is exactly how Warren Buffett describes bargain hunting amid the ravages of the 1973 to 1974 bear market.**     
    - If everyone likes it, it’s probably because it has been doing well. Most people seem to think outstanding performance to date presages outstanding future performance. Actually, it’s more likely that outstanding performance to date has borrowed from the future and thus presages subpar performance from here on out.
    - Superior investors know—and buy—when the price of something is lower than it should be. And the price of an investment can be lower than it should be only when most people don’t see its merit. Yogi Berra is famous for having said, “Nobody goes to that restaurant anymore; it’s too crowded.” It’s just as nonsensical to say, “Everyone realizes that investment’s a bargain.” If everyone realizes it, they’ll buy, in which case the price will no longer be low. … Large amounts of money aren’t made by buying what everybody likes. They’re made by buying what everybody underestimates. …
      In short, there are two primary elements in superior investing:
       - seeing some quality that others don’t see or appreciate (and that isn’t reflected in the price), and
       - having it turn out to be true (or at least accepted by the market).
    - Skepticism is what it takes to look behind a balance sheet, the latest miracle of financial engineering or the can’t-miss story. … Only a skeptic can separate the things that sound good and are from the things that sound good and aren’t. The best investors I know exemplify this trait. It’s an absolute necessity. Lots of bad things happened to kick off the credit crisis that had been considered unlikely (if not impossible), and they happened at the same time, to investors who’d taken on significant leverage. So the easy explanation is that the people who were hurt in the credit crisis hadn’t been skeptical—or pessimistic—enough. But that triggered an epiphany: skepticism and pessimism aren’t synonymous. Skepticism calls for pessimism when optimism is excessive. But it also calls for optimism when pessimism is excessive.                                                                                    
    
    
- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Finding Bargains***
    - The process of intelligently building a portfolio consists of buying the best investments, making room for them by selling lesser ones, and staying clear of the worst. The raw materials for the process consist of 
        - a list of potential investments, 
        - estimates of their intrinsic value, 
        - a sense for how their prices compare with their intrinsic value, and 
        - an understanding of the risks involved in each, and of the effect their inclusion would have on the portfolio being assembled.
    - Identify instruments that offer the best ratio of potential return to risk, or the most value for the money. 
    - A high-quality asset can constitute a good or bad buy, and a lowquality asset can constitute a good or bad buy. The tendency to mistake objective merit for investment opportunity, and the failure to distinguish between good assets and good buys, get most investors into trouble. **Our goal isn’t to find good assets, but good buys. Thus, it’s not what you buy; it’s what you pay for it.**    

- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Patient Opportunism***
    - One of the great things about investing is that the only real penalty is for making losing investments. There’s no penalty for omitting losing investments, of course, just rewards. And even for missing a few winners, the penalty is bearable.
    - When prices are high, it’s inescapable that prospective returns are low (and risks are high).
    - High valuations can often go higher and last for longer than expected, continually frustrating disciplined and patient value investors. May 2005 wasn’t the perfect time to get off the merry-go-round; May 2007 was. Being early provided a good reminder about the pain involved in being too far ahead of your time. Having said that, it was much better to get off too soon in May 2005 than to stay on past May 2007.
          
- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Knowing What You Don’t Know***
   - Understanding uncertainty: Risk and uncertainty aren’t the same as loss, but they create the potential for loss when things go wrong. Some of the biggest losses occur when overconfidence regarding predictive ability causes investors to underestimate the range of possibilities, the difficulty of predicting which one will materialize, and the consequences of a surprise.
   - One key question investors have to answer is whether they view the future as knowable or unknowable. Investors who feel they know what the future holds will act assertively: making directional bets, concentrating positions, levering holdings and counting on future growth—in other words, doing things that in the absence of foreknowledge would increase risk. On the other hand, those who feel they don’t know what the future holds will act quite differently: diversifying, hedging, levering less (or not at all), emphasizing value today over growth tomorrow, staying high in the capital structure, and generally girding for a variety of possible outcomes. The first group of investors did much better in the years leading up to the crash. But the second group was better prepared when the crash unfolded, and they had more capital available (and more-intact psyches) with which to profit from purchases made at its nadir.
   - Mark Twain put it best: **“It ain’t what you don’t know that gets you into trouble. It’s what you know for sure that just ain’t so.”**
   - Acknowledging the boundaries of what you can know—and working within those limits rather than venturing beyond—can give you a great advantage.                                                                                    
   
- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Having a Sense for Where We Stand***
    - We may never know where we’re going, but we’d better have a good idea where we are. That is, even if we can’t predict the timing and extent of cyclical fluctuations, it’s essential that we strive to ascertain where we stand in cyclical terms and act accordingly.
    - I consider it far more reasonable to try to: 
        - stay alert for occasions when a market has reached an extreme, 
          1. It’s really not that hard to understand the present. What we need to do is “take the market’s temperature.” Simply put, we must strive to understand the implications of what’s going on around us. When others are recklessly confident and buying aggressively, we should be highly cautious; when others are frightened into inaction or panic selling, we should become aggressive.
          2. So look around, and ask yourself: Are investors optimistic or pessimistic? Do the media talking heads say the markets should be piled into or avoided? Are novel investment schemes readily accepted or dismissed out of hand? Are securities offerings and fund openings being treated as opportunities to get rich or possible pitfalls? Has the credit cycle rendered capital readily available or impossible to obtain? Are price/earnings ratios high or low in the context of history, and are yield spreads tight or generous?                             
        - adjust our behavior in response and, 
        - most important, refuse to fall into line with the herd behavior that renders so many investors dead wrong at tops and bottoms.
    - The riskiest things: When buyers compete to put large amounts of capital to work in a market, prices are bid up relative to value, prospective returns shrink, and risk rises. It’s only when buyers predominate relative to sellers that you can have highly overpriced assets. The warning signs shouldn’t be hard to spot.

- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Appreciating the Role of Luck***
    - Learn to be honest with yourself about your successes and failures. Learn to recognize the role luck has played in all outcomes. Learn to decide which outcomes came about because of skill and which because of luck. Until one learns to identify the true source of success, one will be fooled by randomness.
    - Most people acknowledge the uncertainty that surrounds the future, but they feel that at least the past is known and fixed. After all, the past is history, absolute and unchanging. But Taleb points out that the things that happened are only a small subset of the things that could have happened. Thus, the fact that a stratagem or action worked—under the circumstances that unfolded—doesn’t necessarily prove the decision behind it was wise.
    - One of the first things I remember learning after entering Wharton in 1963 was that the quality of a decision is not determined by the outcome. The events that transpire afterward make decisions successful or unsuccessful, and those events are often well beyond anticipating.
    - What is a good decision? Let’s say someone decides to build a ski resort in Miami, and three months later a freak blizzard hits south Florida, dumping twelve feet of snow. In its first season, the ski area turns a hefty profit. Does that mean building it was a good decision? No. A good decision is one that a logical, intelligent and informed person would have made under the circumstances as they appeared at the time, before the outcome was known. By that standard, the Miami ski resort looks like folly.
    - In the long run, there’s no reasonable alternative to believing that good decisions will lead to investment profits. In the short run, however, we must be stoic when they don’t.
    - Short-term gains and short-term losses are potential impostors, as neither is necessarily indicative of real investment ability (or the lack thereof).
    - Summary:
       - We should spend our time trying to find value among the knowable— industries, companies and securities—rather than base our decisions on what we expect from the less-knowable macro world of economies and broad market performance.
       - Given that we don’t know exactly which future will obtain, we have to get value on our side by having a strongly held, analytically derived opinion of it and buying for less when opportunities to do so present themselves.
       - We have to practice defensive investing, since many of the outcomes are likely to go against us. It’s more important to ensure survival under negative outcomes than it is to guarantee maximum returns under favorable ones.
       - To improve our chances of success, we have to emphasize acting contrary to the herd when it’s at extremes, being aggressive when the market is low and cautious when it’s high.
       - Given the highly indeterminate nature of outcomes, we must view strategies and their results—both good and bad—with suspicion until proved out over a large number of trials.
    
- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Investing Defensively***    
    - There are old investors, and there are bold investors, but there are no old bold investors.
    - So I ask, “Which do you care about more, making money or avoiding losses?” The answer is invariably the same: both. The problem is that you can’t simultaneously go all out for both profit making and loss avoidance. Each investor has to take a position regarding these two goals, and usually that requires striking a reasonable balance. The decision should be made consciously and rationally.
    - Tennis analogy on investing: His views on market efficiency and the high cost of trading led him to conclude that the pursuit of winners in the mainstream stock markets is unlikely to pay off for the investor. Instead, you should try to avoid hitting losers. I found this view of investing absolutely compelling.    
    - Oaktree’s Investment Philosophy: Our preference for defense is clear. In good times, we feel it’s okay if we just keep up with the indices (and in the best of times we may even lag a bit). But even average investors make a lot of money in good times, and I doubt many managers get fired for being average in up markets. **If we avoid the losers, the winners will take care of themselves.**
    - What is offense in investing? Offense is easy to define. It’s the adoption of aggressive tactics and elevated risk in the pursuit of above-average gains. 
    - But what is defense in investing? Rather than doing the right thing, the defensive investor’s main emphasis is on not doing the wrong thing.    
    - There are two principal elements in investment defense:    
        1. **The exclusion of losers from portfolios.** This is best accomplished by conducting extensive due diligence, applying high standards, demanding a low price and generous margin for error and being less willing to bet on continued prosperity, rosy forecasts and developments that may be uncertain.   
        2. **The avoidance of poor years and, especially, exposure to meltdown in crashes.** In addition to the ingredients described previously that help keep individual losing investments from the portfolio, this aspect of investment defense requires thoughtful portfolio diversification, limits on the overall riskiness borne, and a general tilt toward safety.
    - Concentration (the opposite of diversification) and leverage are two examples of offense. They’ll add to returns when they work but prove harmful when they don’t: again, the potential for higher highs and lower lows from aggressive tactics. Use enough of them, however, and they can jeopardize your investment survival if things go awry. Defense, on the other hand, can increase your likelihood of being able to get through the tough times and survive long enough to enjoy the eventual payoff from smart investments.
    - Because ensuring the ability to survive under adverse circumstances is incompatible with maximizing returns in the good times, investors must choose between the two.
    - What is it that makes outcomes tolerable even when the future doesn’t live up to your expectations? The answer is **margin for error**. Low price is the ultimate source of margin for error.
    - Investors think about this tension between risk and reward in conjunction with the probabilities of each. One way to maximize the asymmetry of risk and reward is to make sure you minimize risk. I’ve said this before in another place: **if you minimize the chance of loss in an investment, most of the other alternatives are good.**  
    - Defensive investing simplify is to **Invest scared!** Worry about the possibility of loss. Worry that there’s something you don’t know. Worry that you can make high-quality decisions but still be hit by bad luck or surprise events. Investing scared will prevent hubris; will keep your guard up and your mental adrenaline flowing; will make you insist on adequate margin of safety; and will increase the chances that your portfolio is prepared for things going wrong. And if nothing does go wrong, surely the winners will take care of themselves.  
      I have met few investors who invest scared, except, of course, during a general market panic. But even in those cases they are not investing scared: they are no longer investing because they are too scared!
    
- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Avoiding Pitfalls***
    - An investor needs do very few things right as long as he avoids big mistakes, trying to avoid losses is more important than striving for great investment successes.
    - “Failure of imagination”—the inability to understand in advance the full breadth of the range of outcomes.
    - Relying to excess on the fact that something “should happen” can kill you when it doesn’t. Even if you properly understand the underlying probability distribution, you can’t count on things happening as they’re supposed to. And the success of your investment actions shouldn’t be highly dependent on normal outcomes prevailing; instead, you must allow for outliers.
    - Understanding and anticipating the power of correlation —and thus the limitations of diversification—is a principal aspect of risk control and portfolio management, but it’s very hard to accomplish. The failure to correctly anticipate co-movement within a portfolio is a critical source of investment error. 
    - So failure of imagination consists in the first instance of not anticipating the possible extremeness of future events, and in the second instance of failing to understand the knock-on consequences of extreme events.                    
    - What We Learn from a Crisis—or Ought To   
      1. Too much capital availability makes money flow to the wrong places. When capital is scarce and in demand, investors are faced with allocation choices regarding the best use for their capital, and they get to make their decisions with patience and discipline. But when there’s too much capital chasing too few ideas, investments will be made that do not deserve to be made.
      2. When capital goes where it shouldn’t, bad things happen. In times of capital market stringency, deserving borrowers are turned away. But when money’s everywhere, unqualified borrowers are offered money on a silver platter. The inevitable results include delinquencies, bankruptcies and losses.
      3. When capital is in oversupply, investors compete for deals by accepting low returns and a slender margin for error. When people want to buy something, their competition takes the form of an auction in which they bid higher and higher. When you think about it, bidding more for something is the same as saying you’ll take less for your money. Thus, the bids for investments can be viewed as a statement of how little return investors demand and how much risk they’re willing to accept.
         **This is one of the reasons that we always think in terms of earnings yield (which is just the inverse of the P/E) rather than in P/Es; doing so allows for easy comparison to fixed-income alternatives.**  
      4. Widespread disregard for risk creates great risk. “Nothing can go wrong.” “No price is too high.” “Someone will always pay me more for it.” “If I don’t move quickly, someone else will buy it.” Statements like these indicate that risk is being given short shrift. This cycle’s version saw people think that because they were buying better companies or financing with more borrowerfriendly debt, buyout transactions could support larger and larger amounts of leverage. This caused them to ignore the risk of untoward developments and the danger inherent in highly leveraged capital structures.
      5. Inadequate due diligence leads to investment losses. The best defense against loss is thorough, insightful analysis and insistence on what Warren Buffett calls “margin for error.” But in hot markets, people worry about missing out, not about losing money, and time-consuming, skeptical analysis becomes the province of old fogeys.
      6. In heady times, capital is devoted to innovative investments, many of which fail the test of time. Bullish investors focus on what might work, not what might go wrong. Eagerness takes over from prudence, causing people to accept new investment products they don’t understand. Later, they wonder what they could have been thinking.
      7. Hidden fault lines running through portfolios can make the prices of seemingly unrelated assets move in tandem. It’s easier to assess the return and risk of an investment than to understand how it will move relative to others. Correlation is often underestimated, especially because of the degree to which it increases in crisis. A portfolio may appear to be diversified as to asset class, industry and geography, but in tough times, nonfundamental factors such as margin calls, frozen markets and a general rise in risk aversion can become dominant, affecting everything similarly.
      8. Psychological and technical factors can swamp fundamentals. In the long run, value creation and destruction are driven by fundamentals such as economic trends, companies’ earnings, demand for products and the skillfulness of managements. But in the short run, markets are highly responsive to investor psychology and the technical factors that influence the supply and demand for assets. In fact, I think confidence matters more than anything else in the short run. Anything can happen in this regard, with results that are both unpredictable and irrational.
      9. Markets change, invalidating models. Accounts of the difficulties of “quant” funds center on the failure of computer models and their underlying assumptions. The computers that run portfolios attempt primarily to profit from patterns that held true in past markets. They can’t predict changes in those patterns; they can’t anticipate aberrant periods; and thus they generally overestimate the reliability of past norms. 
      10. Leverage magnifies outcomes but doesn’t add value. It can make great sense to use leverage to increase your investment in assets at bargain prices offering high promised returns or generous risk premiums. But it can be dangerous to use leverage to buy more of assets that offer low returns or narrow risk spreads—in other words, assets that are fully priced or overpriced. It makes little sense to use leverage to try to turn inadequate returns into adequate returns.
      11. Excesses correct. When investor psychology is extremely rosy and markets are “priced for perfection”—based on an assumption that things will always be good—the scene is set for capital destruction. It may happen because investors’ assumptions turn out to be too optimistic, because negative events occur, or simply because too-high prices collapse of their own weight.
    - One way to improve investment results—which we try hard to apply at Oaktree—is to think about what “today’s mistake” might be and try to avoid it. There are times in investing when the likely mistake consists of:
      - not buying,
      - not buying enough,
      - not making one more bid in an auction,
      - holding too much cash,
      - not using enough leverage, or
      - not taking enough risk.
      - buying too much,
      - buying too aggressively,
      - making one bid too many,
      - using too much leverage, and
      - taking too much risk in the pursuit of superior returns.
    - When investor psychology is at equilibrium and fear and greed are balanced, asset prices are likely to be fair relative to value. In that case there may be no compelling action, and it’s important to know that, too. **When there’s nothing particularly clever to do, the potential pitfall lies in insisting on being clever.**  
    
- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Adding Value***
    - The performance of investors who add value is asymmetrical. The percentage of the market’s gain they capture is higher than the percentage of loss they suffer. … Only skill can be counted on to add more in propitious environments than it costs in hostile ones. This is the investment asymmetry we seek.
    - The trick is to do better than the market: to add value. This calls for superior investment skill, superior insight. To accomplish that, I’m going to introduce two terms from investment theory. 
      - **Beta:** a measure of a portfolio’s relative sensitivity to market movements. 
        1. Beta means relative volatility, or the relative responsiveness of the portfolio return to the market return.
        2. A portfolio with a beta above 1 is expected to be more volatile than the reference market, and a beta below 1 means it’ll be less volatile. 
        3. Multiply the market return by the beta and you’ll get the return that a given portfolio should be expected to achieve, omitting nonsystematic sources of risk. If the market is up 15 percent, a portfolio with a beta of 1.2 should return 18 percent (plus or minus alpha).   
      - **Alpha:** which I define as personal investment skill, or the ability to generate performance that is unrelated to movement of the market.      
    - the formula for explaining portfolio performance (y) is as follows:
                y = α+βx  
      Here α is the symbol for alpha, β stands for beta(but there are risks other than volatility that can't be quantified), and x is the return of the market. The market-related return of the portfolio is equal to its beta times the market return, and alpha (skill-related return) is added to arrive at the total return (of course, theory says there’s no such thing as alpha).
    - A manager who earned 18 percent with a risky portfolio isn’t necessarily superior to one who earned 15 percent with a lower-risk portfolio. Risk-adjusted return holds the key, even though—since risk other than volatility can’t be quantified—I feel it is best assessed judgmentally, not calculated scientifically.    
    - I dismiss the identity between risk and volatility, I insist on considering a portfolio’s return in the light of its overall riskiness. 
    - I also dismiss the idea that the alpha term in the equation has to be zero. Investment skill exists, even though not everyone has it. Only through thinking about risk-adjusted return might we determine whether an investor possesses superior insight, investment skill or alpha … that is, whether the investor adds value.
    - The performance of investors who add value is asymmetrical. The percentage of the market’s gain they capture is higher than the percentage of loss they suffer. Aggressive investors with skill do well in bull markets but don’t give it all back in corresponding bear markets, while defensive investors with skill lose relatively little in bear markets but participate reasonably in bull markets.
    - Goal should be to do as well as the market when it does well and better than the market when it does poorly. At first blush that may sound like a modest goal, but it’s really quite ambitious.
      In order to stay up with the market when it does well, a portfolio has to incorporate good measures of beta and correlation with the market. But if we’re aided by beta and correlation on the way up, shouldn’t they be expected to hurt us on the way down?
      If we’re consistently able to decline less when the market declines and also participate fully when the market rises, this can be attributable to only one thing: alpha, or skill.
      That’s an example of value-added investing, and if demonstrated over a period of decades, it has to come from investment skill.
    
- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Reasonable Expectations***  
    - No investment activity is likely to be successful unless the return goal is (a) explicit and (b) reasonable in the absolute and relative to the risk entailed. Every investment effort should begin with a statement of what you’re trying to accomplish. The key questions are what your return goal is, how much risk you can tolerate, and how much liquidity you’re likely to require in the interim.
    - There’s an important saying attributed to Voltaire: “The perfect is the enemy of the good.” This is especially applicable to investing, where insisting on participating only when conditions are perfect—for example, buying only at the bottom—can cause you to miss out on a lot. Perfection in investing is generally unobtainable; the best we can hope for is to make a lot of good investments and exclude most of the bad ones.
    
- ***The Most Important Thing Is … Pulling It All Together***
    - You must have a good idea of what the thing you’re considering buying is worth. To oversimplify, there’s cash on the books and the value of the tangible assets; the ability of the company or asset to generate cash; and the potential for these things to increase.
    - To achieve superior investment results, your insight into value has to be superior. Thus you must learn things others don’t, see things differently or do a better job of analyzing them—ideally, all three.
    - Your view of value has to be based on a solid factual and analytical foundation, and it has to be held firmly. Only then will you know when to buy or sell. Only a strong sense of value will give you the discipline needed to take profits on a highly appreciated asset that everyone thinks will rise nonstop, or the guts to hold and average down in a crisis even as prices go lower every day.
    - The relationship between price and value holds the ultimate key to investment success. Buying below value is the most dependable route to profit. Paying above value rarely works out as well.
    - What causes an asset to sell below its value? Outstanding buying opportunities exist primarily because perception understates reality. Whereas high quality can be readily apparent, it takes keen insight to detect cheapness. For this reason, investors often mistake objective merit for investment opportunity. The superior investor never forgets that the goal is to find good buys, not good assets.  
    - In addition to giving rise to profit potential, buying when price is below value is a key element in limiting risk. Neither paying up for high growth nor participating in a “hot” momentum market can do the same.    
    - The relationship between price and value is influenced by psychology and technicals, forces that can dominate fundamentals in the short run. Extreme swings in price due to those two factors provide opportunities for big profits or big mistakes. To have it be the former rather than the latter, you must stick with the concept of value and cope with psychology and technicals.
    - Likewise, the psychology of the investing herd moves in a regular, pendulum-like pattern—from optimism to pessimism; from credulousness to skepticism; from fear of missing opportunity to fear of losing money; and thus from eagerness to buy to urgency to sell. The swing of the pendulum causes the herd to buy at high prices and sell at low prices. Thus, being part of the herd is a formula for disaster, whereas contrarianism at the extremes will help to avert losses and lead eventually to success.
    - The power of psychological influences must never be underestimated. They’ll influence others, and the thoughtful investor will feel them as well. None of us should expect to be immune and insulated from them. Although we will feel them, we must not succumb; rather, we must recognize them for what they are and stand against them. Reason must overcome emotion.      
    - Most trends—both bullish and bearish—eventually become overdone, profiting those who recognize them early but penalizing the last to join. What the wise man does in the beginning, the fool does in the end. The ability to resist excesses is rare, but it’s an important attribute of the most successful investors.
    - It’s impossible to know when an overheated market will turn down, or when a downturn will cease and appreciation will take its place. But while we never know where we’re going, we ought to know where we are. We can infer where markets stand in their cycle from the behavior of those around us. When other investors are unworried, we should be cautious; when investors are panicked, we should turn aggressive.
    - Not even contrarianism, however, will produce profits all the time. The great opportunities to buy and sell are associated with valuation extremes, and by definition they don’t occur every day. We’re bound to also buy and sell at less compelling points in the cycle, since few of us can be content to act only once every few years. We must recognize when the odds are less in our favor and tread more carefully.
    - Buying based on strong value, low price relative to value, and depressed general psychology is likely to provide the best results. Even then, however, things can go against us for a long time before turning as we think they should. Underpriced is far from synonymous with going up soon. Thus the importance of my second key adage: **“Being too far ahead of your time is indistinguishable from being wrong.” It can require patience and fortitude to hold positions long enough to be proved right.**
    - In addition to being able to quantify value and pursue it when it’s priced right, successful investors must have a sound approach to the subject of risk. They have to go well beyond the academics’ singular definition of risk as volatility and understand that the risk that matters most is the risk of permanent loss. They have to reject increased risk bearing as a surefire formula for investment success and know that riskier investments entail a wider range of possible outcomes and a higher probability of loss. They have to have a sense for the loss potential that’s present in each investment and be willing to bear it only when the reward is more than adequate.
    - Most investors are simplistic, preoccupied with the chance for return. Some gain further insight and learn that it’s as important to understand risk as it is return. But it’s the rare investor who achieves the sophistication required to appreciate correlation, a key element in controlling the riskiness of an overall portfolio. Because of differences in correlation, individual investments of the same absolute riskiness can be combined in different ways to form portfolios with widely varying total risk levels. Most investors think diversification consists of holding many different things; few understand that diversification is effective only if portfolio holdings can be counted on to respond differently to a given development in the environment.
    - While aggressive investing can produce exciting results when it goes right—especially in good times—it’s unlikely to generate gains as reliably as defensive investing. Thus, a low incidence and severity of loss is part of most outstanding investment records.
    - Risk control lies at the core of defensive investing. Rather than just trying to do the right thing, the defensive investor places a heavy emphasis on not doing the wrong thing. Because ensuring the ability to survive under adverse circumstances is incompatible with maximizing returns in good times, investors must decide what balance to strike between the two. The defensive investor chooses to emphasize the former
    - Margin for error is a critical element in defensive investing. Whereas most investments will be successful if the future unfolds as hoped, it takes margin for error to render outcomes tolerable when the future doesn’t oblige. An investor can obtain margin for error by insisting on tangible, lasting value in the here and now; buying only when price is well below value; eschewing leverage; and diversifying. Emphasizing these elements can limit your gains in good times, but it will also maximize your chances of coming through intact when things don’t go well. My third favorite adage is “Never forget the six-foot-tall man who drowned crossing the stream that was five feet deep on average.” Margin for error gives you staying power and gets you through the low spots.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
    - Risk control and margin for error should be present in your portfolio at all times. But you must remember that they’re “hidden assets.” Most years in the markets are good years, but it’s only in the bad years—when the tide goes out—that the value of defense becomes evident. Thus, in the good years, defensive investors have to be content with the knowledge that their gains, although perhaps less than maximal, were achieved with risk protection in place … even though it turned out not to be needed.         
    - One of the essential requirements for investment success—and thus part of most great investors’ psychological equipment—is the realization that we don’t know what lies ahead in terms of the macro future. Few people if any know more than the consensus about what’s going to happen to the economy, interest rates and market aggregates. Thus, the investor’s time is better spent trying to gain a knowledge advantage regarding “the knowable”: industries, companies and securities. The more micro your focus, the greater the likelihood you can learn things others don’t.
    - Many more investors assume they have knowledge of the future direction of economies and markets—and act that way—than actually do. They take aggressive actions predicated on knowing what’s coming, and that rarely produces the desired results. Investing on the basis of strongly held but incorrect forecasts is a source of significant potential loss.
    - Many investors—amateurs and professionals alike—assume the world runs on orderly processes that can be mastered and predicted. They ignore the randomness of things and the probability distribution that underlies future developments. Thus, they opt to base their actions on the one scenario they predict will unfold. This works sometimes—winning kudos for the investor—but not consistently enough to produce long-term success. In both economic forecasting and investment management, it’s worth noting that there’s usually someone who gets it exactly right … but it’s rarely the same person twice. The most successful investors get things “about right” most of the time, and that’s much better than the rest.
    - An important part of getting it right consists of avoiding the pitfalls that are frequently presented by economic fluctuations, companies’ travails, the markets’ manic swings, and other investors’ gullibility. There’s no surefire way to accomplish this, but awareness of these potential dangers certainly represents the best starting point for an effort to avoid being victimized by them.
    - Another essential element is having reasonable expectations. The key is to think long and hard about propositions that may be too good to be true.
    - Neither defensive investors who limit their losses in a decline nor aggressive investors with substantial gains in a rising market have proved they possess skill. For us to conclude that investors truly add value, we have to see how they perform in environments to which their style isn’t particularly well suited. Can the aggressive investor keep from giving back gains when the market turns down? Will the defensive investor participate substantially when the market rises? This kind of asymmetry is the expression of real skill. Does an investor have more winners than losers? Are the gains on the winners bigger than the losses on the losers? Are the good years more beneficial than the bad years are painful? And are the long-term results better than the investor’s style alone would suggest? These things are the mark of the superior investor. Without them, returns may be the result of little more than market movement and beta.          
      