- **Chapter-1: The Surprising Power of Atomic Habits**
    - It is so easy to overestimate the importance of one defining moment and underestimate the value of making small improvements on a daily basis. Too often, we convince ourselves that massive success requires massive action. Whether it is losing weight, building a business, writing a book, winning a championship, or achieving any other goal, we put pressure on ourselves to make some earth-shattering improvement that everyone will talk about.
    - Meanwhile, improving by 1 percent isn’t particularly notable— sometimes it isn’t even noticeable—but it can be far more meaningful, especially in the long run. The difference a tiny improvement can make over time is astounding. Here’s how the math works out: if you can get 1 percent better each day for one year, you’ll end up thirty-seven times better by the time you’re done.    
    - **Habits are the compound interest of self-improvement**. The same way that money multiplies through compound interest, the effects of your habits multiply as you repeat them. They seem to make little difference on any given day and yet the impact they deliver over the months and years can be enormous. It is only when looking back two, five, or perhaps ten years later that the value of good habits and the cost of bad ones becomes strikingly apparent.    
    - A single bad decision is easy to dismiss. But when we repeat 1 percent errors, day after day, by replicating poor decisions, duplicating tiny mistakes, and rationalizing little excuses, our small choices compound into toxic results. It’s the accumulation of many missteps—a 1 percent decline here and there— that eventually leads to a problem.   
    - Similarly, **a slight change in your daily habits can guide your life to a very different destination**. Making a choice that is 1 percent better or 1 percent worse seems insignificant in the moment, but over the span of moments that make up a lifetime these choices determine the difference between who you are and who you could be. Success is the product of daily habits—not once-in-a-lifetime transformations.  
    - **Your outcomes are a lagging measure of your habits**. Your net worth is a lagging measure of your financial habits. Your weight is a lagging measure of your eating habits. Your knowledge is a lagging measure of your learning habits. Your clutter is a lagging measure of your cleaning habits. You get what you repeat.    
    - **Time magnifies the margin between success and failure**. It will multiply whatever you feed it. Good habits make time your ally. Bad habits make time your enemy.   
    - **Breakthrough moments are often the result of many previous actions, which build up the potential required to unleash a major change**. Bamboo can barely be seen for the first five years as it builds extensive root systems underground before exploding ninety feet into the air within six weeks.   
    - **Similarly, habits often appear to make no difference until you cross a critical threshold and unlock a new level of performance**. In the early and middle stages of any quest, there is often a Valley of Disappointment. You expect to make progress in a linear fashion and it’s frustrating how ineffective changes can seem during the first days, weeks, and even months. It doesn’t feel like you are going anywhere. It’s a hallmark of any compounding process: the most powerful outcomes are delayed.    
    - This is one of the core reasons why it is so hard to build habits that last. People make a few small changes, fail to see a tangible result, and decide to stop. You think, “I’ve been running every day for a month, so why can’t I see any change in my body?” Once this kind of thinking takes over, it’s easy to let good habits fall by the wayside. But in order to make a meaningful difference, habits need to persist long enough to break through this plateau—what I call the Plateau of Latent Potential. **If you find yourself struggling to build a good habit or break a bad one, it is not because you have lost your ability to improve. It is often because you have not yet crossed the Plateau of Latent Potential. When you finally break through the Plateau of Latent Potential, people will call it an overnight success**. The outside world only sees the most dramatic event rather than all that preceded it. But you know that it’s the work you did long ago—when it seemed that you weren’t making any progress—that makes the jump today possible.   
    - **Goals are about the results you want to achieve. Systems are about the processes that lead to those results**. If you’re an entrepreneur, your goal might be to build a milliondollar business. Your system is how you test product ideas, hire employees, and run marketing campaigns.
    - What do I mean by this? Are goals completely useless? Of course not. **Goals are good for setting a direction, but systems are best for making progress**. A handful of problems arise when you spend too much time thinking about your goals and not enough time designing your systems. 
        - **Winners and losers have the same goals:** Every candidate wants to get the job. And if successful and unsuccessful people share the same goals, then the goal cannot be what differentiates the winners from the losers.    
        - **Achieving a goal is only a momentary change:** Imagine you have a messy room and you set a goal to clean it. If you summon the energy to tidy up, then you will have a clean room—for now. But if you maintain the same sloppy, pack-rat habits that led to a messy room in the first place, soon you’ll be looking at a new pile of clutter and hoping for another burst of motivation. **You’re left chasing the same outcome because you never changed the system behind it. You treated a symptom without addressing the cause.**   
        - **Goals restrict your happiness:** The problem with a goals-first mentality is that you’re continually putting happiness off until the next milestone. Furthermore, goals create an “either-or” conflict: either you achieve your goal and are successful or you fail and you are a disappointment. You mentally box yourself into a narrow version of happiness. This is misguided. It is unlikely that your actual path through life will match the exact journey you had in mind when you set out.  
          **A systems-first mentality provides the antidote. When you fall in love with the process rather than the product, you don’t have to wait to give yourself permission to be happy. You can be satisfied anytime your system is running. And a system can be successful in many different forms, not just the one you first envision.**     
        - **Goals are at odds with long-term progress:** Finally, **a goal-oriented mind-set can create a “yo-yo” effect**. Many runners work hard for months, but as soon as they cross the finish line, they stop training. The race is no longer there to motivate them. **When all of your hard work is focused on a particular goal, what is left to push you forward after you achieve it? This is why many people find themselves reverting to their old habits after accomplishing a goal**. 
          **The purpose of setting goals is to win the game. The purpose of building systems is to continue playing the game. True long-term thinking is goal-less thinking. It’s not about any single accomplishment. It is about the cycle of endless refinement and continuous improvement. Ultimately, it is your commitment to the process that will determine your progress.**  
    - If you’re having trouble changing your habits, the problem isn’t you. The problem is your system. **You do not rise to the level of your goals. You fall to the level of your systems**.  
    - **Atomic habits:**—A regular practice or routine that is not only small and easy to do, but also the source of incredible power; a component of the system of compound growth.    

- **Chapter-2: How Your Habits Shape Your Identity (and Vice Versa)**   
    - Changing our habits is challenging for two reasons: 
        - **We try to change the wrong thing and** 
        - **We try to change our habits in the wrong way**.     
    - There are three levels at which change can occur: 
        - **The first layer is changing your outcomes:** This level is concerned with changing your results: losing weight, publishing a book, winning a championship Most of the goals you set are associated with this level of change.
        - **The second layer is changing your process:** This level is concerned with changing your habits and systems: implementing a new routine at the gym, decluttering your desk for better workflow, developing a meditation practice. Most of the habits you build are associated with this level.
        - **The third and deepest layer is changing your identity:** This level is concerned with changing your beliefs: your worldview, your self-image, your judgments about yourself and others. Most of the beliefs, assumptions, and biases you hold are associated with this level..    
    - Many people begin the process of changing their habits by focusing on what they want to achieve. This leads us to outcome-based habits. **The alternative is to build identity-based habits. With this approach, we start by focusing on who we wish to become**.     
    - Behavior that is incongruent with the self will not last. **You may want more money, but if your identity is someone who consumes rather than creates, then you’ll continue to be pulled toward spending rather than earning. You may want better health, but if you continue to prioritize comfort over accomplishment, you’ll be drawn to relaxing rather than training.**      
    - True behavior change is identity change. **You might start a habit because of motivation, but the only reason you’ll stick with one is that it becomes part of your identity**.   
    - Like all aspects of habit formation, this, too, is a double-edged sword. **When working for you, identity change can be a powerful force for self-improvement. When working against you, though, identity change can be a curse**. Once you have adopted an identity, it can be easy to let your allegiance to it impact your ability to change. Many people walk through life in a cognitive slumber, blindly following the norms attached to their identity. For ex.
        - “I’m terrible with directions.”   
        - “I’m not a morning person.”   
    - Your identity emerges out of your habits. More precisely, your habits are how you embody your identity. When you make your bed each day, you embody the identity of an organized person. When you write each day, you embody the identity of a creative person.    
  
- **Chapter-3: How to Build Better Habits in 4 Simple Steps**    
    - Habit formation is incredibly useful because the conscious mind is the bottleneck of the brain. It can only pay attention to one problem at a time. As a result, your brain is always working to preserve your conscious attention for whatever task is most essential. **Whenever possible, the conscious mind likes to pawn off tasks to the nonconscious mind to do automatically. This is precisely what happens when a habit is formed. Habits reduce cognitive load and free up mental capacity, so you can allocate your attention to other tasks**.   
    - Habits do not restrict freedom. They create it. **In fact, the people who don’t have their habits handled are often the ones with the least amount of freedom**. Without good financial habits, you will always be struggling for the next dollar. Without good health habits, you will always seem to be short on energy. Without good learning habits, you will always feel like you’re behind the curve.   
    - The process of building a habit can be divided into four simple steps: **cue, craving, response, and reward**.    
        - First, **there is the cue. The cue triggers your brain to initiate a behavior**. It is a bit of information that predicts a reward. Our prehistoric ancestors were paying attention to cues that signaled the location of primary rewards like food, water, and sex. 
        - Because the cue is the first indication that we’re close to a reward, it naturally leads to a craving. **Cravings are the second step, and they are the motivational force behind every habit**. Without some level of motivation or desire— without craving a change—we have no reason to act. What you crave is not the habit itself but the change in state it delivers. You are not motivated by brushing your teeth but rather by the feeling of a clean mouth. Cravings differ from person to person. In theory, any piece of information could trigger a craving, but in practice, people are not motivated by the same cues. For a gambler, the sound of slot machines can be a potent trigger that sparks an intense wave of desire. For someone who rarely gambles, the jingles and chimes of the casino are just background noise.        
        - The third step is the response. **The response is the actual habit you perform, which can take the form of a thought or an action. Whether a response occurs depends on how motivated you are and how much friction is associated with the behavior**. If a particular action requires more physical or mental effort than you are willing to expend, then you won’t do it. Your response also depends on your ability. It sounds simple, but a habit can occur only if you are capable of doing it.  
        - Finally, **the response delivers a reward. Rewards are the end goal of every habit. The cue is about noticing the reward**. The craving is about wanting the reward. The response is about obtaining the reward. We chase rewards because they serve two purposes: (1) they satisfy us and (2) they teach us which actions are worth remembering in the future.     
    - Together, these four steps form a neurological feedback loop—cue, craving, response, reward; cue, craving, response, reward—that ultimately allows you to create automatic habits. **This cycle is known as the habit loop.** 
    - We can split these four steps into two phases: the problem phase and the solution phase. **The problem phase** includes the cue and the craving, and it is when you realize that something needs to change. **The solution phase** includes the response and the reward, and it is when you take action and achieve the change you desire.    
    - The **Four Laws of Behavior Change** are a simple set of rules we can use to build better habits. They are     
        (1) make it obvious,    
        (2) make it attractive,     
        (3) make it easy, and   
        (4) make it satisfying.     
        
- **Chapter-4: The Man Who Didn’t Look Right**  
    - **If a habit remains mindless, you can’t expect to improve it**. As the psychologist Carl Jung said, “Until you make the unconscious conscious, it will direct your life and you will call it fate.”          
    - **The first step to changing bad habits is to be on the lookout for them**. If you feel like you need extra help, then you can try Pointingand-Calling in your own life. Say out loud the action that you are thinking of taking and what the outcome will be. 
      If you want to cut back on your junk food habit but notice yourself grabbing another cookie, say out loud, “I’m about to eat this cookie, but I don’t need it. Eating it will cause me to gain weight and hurt my health.”    
    - Pointing-and-Calling raises your level of awareness from a nonconscious habit to a more conscious level by verbalizing your actions.  
  
- **Chapter-5: The Best Way to Start a New Habit**  
    - Many people think they lack motivation when what they really lack is clarity. It is not always obvious when and where to take action. **Some people spend their entire lives waiting for the time to be right to make an improvement**.   
    - The sentence they filled out is what researchers refer to as an **implementation intention**, which is a plan you make beforehand about when and where to act. That is, how you intend to implement a particular habit.         
    - **The implementation intentions are effective for sticking to our goals**, whether it’s writing down the exact time and date of when you will get a flu shot or recording the time of your colonoscopy appointment. They increase the odds that people will stick with habits like recycling, studying, going to sleep early, and stopping smoking.   
    - The simple way to apply this strategy to your habits is to fill out this sentence: **I will [BEHAVIOR] at [TIME] in [LOCATION]**.
      Meditation. I will meditate for one minute at 7 a.m. in my kitchen.       
      Studying. I will study Spanish for twenty minutes at 6 p.m. in my bedroom.    
    - **Habit stacking is a special form of an implementation intention. Rather than pairing your new habit with a particular time and location, you pair it with a current habit**.    
      The habit stacking formula is: “**After [CURRENT HABIT], I will [NEW HABIT]**.” For ex.   
      Meditation. After I pour my cup of coffee each morning, I will meditate for one minute.  
    - Once you have mastered this basic structure, you can begin to create larger stacks by chaining small habits together. This allows you to take advantage of the natural momentum that comes from one behavior leading into the next.   
    
- **Chapter-6: Motivation Is Overrated, Environment Often Matters More**    
    - **Environment is the invisible hand that shapes human behavior**. Despite our unique personalities, certain behaviors tend to arise again and again under certain environmental conditions. In church, people tend to talk in whispers.   
    - **Behavior is a function of the Person in their Environment**.            
    - If you want to make a habit a big part of your life, make the cue a big part of your environment. The most persistent behaviors usually have multiple cues.   
    - By sprinkling triggers throughout your surroundings, you increase the odds that you’ll think about your habit throughout the day. Make sure the best choice is the most obvious one. Making a better decision is easy and natural when the cues for good habits are right in front of you.    
    - Most people live in a world others have created for them. But you can alter the spaces where you live and work to increase your exposure to positive cues and reduce your exposure to negative ones. **Environment design allows you to take back control and become the architect of your life. Be the designer of your world and not merely the consumer of it**.   
    - **Whenever possible, avoid mixing the context of one habit with another. When you start mixing contexts, you’ll start mixing habits— and the easier ones will usually win out. This is one reason why the versatility of modern technology is both a strength and a weakness**. You can use your phone for all sorts of tasks, which makes it a powerful device. But when you can use your phone to do nearly anything, it becomes hard to associate it with one task. You want to be productive, but you’re also conditioned to browse social media, check email, and play video games whenever you open your phone. It’s a mishmash of cues.    
    - **If you can manage to stick with this strategy, each context will become associated with a particular habit and mode of thought. Habits thrive under predictable circumstances like these**. Focus comes automatically when you are sitting at your work desk. Relaxation is easier when you are in a space designed for that purpose. Sleep comes quickly when it is the only thing that happens in your bedroom. If you want behaviors that are stable and predictable, you need an environment that is stable and predictable.
    - **A stable environment where everything has a place and a purpose is an environment where habits can easily form**.   
    
- **Chapter-7: The Secret to Self-Control** 
    - **People who appear to have tremendous self-control, it turns out those individuals aren’t all that different from those who are struggling. Instead, “disciplined” people are better at structuring their lives in a way that does not require heroic willpower and selfcontrol**. In other words, they spend less time in tempting situations.  
    - You can break a habit, but you’re unlikely to forget it. Once the mental grooves of habit have been carved into your brain, they are nearly impossible to remove entirely—even if they go unused for quite a while. And that means that simply resisting temptation is an ineffective strategy. It is hard to maintain a Zen attitude in a life filled with interruptions. It takes too much energy. In the short-run, you can choose to overpower temptation. In the longrun, we become a product of the environment that we live in. To put it bluntly, I have never seen someone consistently stick to positive habits in a negative environment.      
    - **Self-control is a short-term strategy, not a long-term one**. You may be able to resist temptation once or twice, but it’s unlikely you can muster the willpower to override your desires every time. Instead of summoning a new dose of willpower whenever you want to do the right thing, your energy would be better spent optimizing your environment. This is the secret to self-control. Make the cues of your good habits obvious and the cues of your bad habits invisible. 
    
- **Chapter-8: How to Make a Habit Irresistible**   
    - **The modern food industry, and the overeating habits it has spawned, is just one example of the 2nd Law of Behavior Change: Make it attractive**. The more attractive an opportunity is, the more likely it is to become habit-forming.  
    - If you want to increase the odds that a behavior will occur, then you need to make it attractive. Throughout our discussion of the 2nd Law, our goal is to learn how to make our habits irresistible. While it is not possible to transform every habit into a supernormal stimulus, we can make any habit more enticing.     
    - **Habits are a dopamine-driven feedback loop**. Every behavior that is highly habit-forming—taking drugs, eating junk food, playing video games, browsing social media—is associated with higher levels of dopamine. The same can be said for our most basic habitual behaviors like eating food, drinking water, having sex, and interacting socially.   
    - When it comes to habits, the key takeaway is this: **dopamine is released not only when you experience pleasure, but also when you anticipate it**. Gambling addicts have a dopamine spike right before they place a bet, not after they win. 
    - **Temptation bundling works by linking an action you want to do with an action you need to do**. In Byrne’s case, he bundled watching Netflix (the thing he wanted to do) with riding his stationary bike (the thing he needed to do).    
    - Temptation bundling is one way to apply a psychology theory known as Premack’s Principle, which states that “**more probable behaviors will reinforce less probable behaviors**.” In other words, even if you don’t really want to process overdue work emails, you’ll become conditioned to do it if it means you get to do something you really want to do along the way.   
            
- **Chapter-9: The Role of Family and Friends in Shaping Your Habits**  
    - We imitate the habits of three groups in particular:  
        - **The close:**
            - Surround yourself with people who have the habits you want to have yourself. You’ll rise together.  
            - Join a culture where (1) your desired behavior is the normal behavior and (2) you already have something in common with the group.     
        - **The many:**
            - When changing your habits means challenging the tribe, change is unattractive. When changing your habits means fitting in with the tribe, change is very attractive.
        - **The powerful:**
            - We are drawn to behaviors that earn us respect, approval, admiration, and status. We want to be the one in the gym who can do muscle-ups because these things separate us from the crowd. Once we fit in, we start looking for ways to stand out.
            - This is one reason we care so much about the habits of highly effective people. We try to copy the behavior of successful people because we desire success ourselves. Many of our daily habits are imitations of people we admire.       

- **Chapter-10: How to Find and Fix the Causes of Your Bad Habits** 
    - **Reframing your habits to highlight their benefits rather than their drawbacks is a fast and lightweight way to reprogram your mind and make a habit seem more attractive**.
    - Finance: Saving money is often associated with sacrifice. However, you can associate it with freedom rather than limitation if you realize one simple truth: living below your current means increases your future means. The money you save this month increases your purchasing power next month.  
    
- **Chapter-11: Walk Slowly, but Never Backward**   
    - A professor at the University of Florida, divided his film photography students into two groups. 
      The “quantity” group would be graded solely on the amount of work they produced.  
      The “quality” group would be graded only on the excellence of their work. 
      At the end of the term, he was surprised to find that all the best photos were produced by the quantity group. During the semester, these students were busy taking photos, experimenting with composition and lighting, testing out various methods in the darkroom, and learning from their mistakes. In the process of creating hundreds of photos, they honed their skills. Meanwhile, the quality group sat around speculating about perfection. In the end, they had little to show for their efforts other than unverified theories and one mediocre photo. 
    - **The difference between being in motion and taking action:** The two ideas sound similar, but they’re not the same. 
        - **When you’re in motion, you’re planning and strategizing and learning**. Those are all good things, but they don’t produce a result.
        - **Action, on the other hand, is the type of behavior that will deliver an outcome**. If I outline twenty ideas for articles I want to write, that’s motion. If I actually sit down and write an article, that’s action.   
    - **Motion makes you feel like you’re getting things done. But really, you’re just preparing to get something done. When preparation becomes a form of procrastination, you need to change something. You don’t want to merely be planning. You want to be practicing.**    
    - Each time you repeat an action, you are activating a particular neural circuit associated with that habit. This means that simply putting in your reps is one of the most critical steps you can take to encoding a new habit. It is why the students who took tons of photos improved their skills while those who merely theorized about perfect photos did not. One group engaged in active practice, the other in passive learning. One in action, the other in motion.       
    - **All habits follow a similar trajectory from effortful practice to automatic behavior, a process known as automaticity**. Automaticity is the ability to perform a behavior without thinking about each step, which occurs when the nonconscious mind takes over.    
    - **The amount of time you have been performing a habit is not as important as the number of times you have performed it.** 
    
- **Chapter-12: The Law of Least Effort**  
    - One of the most effective ways to reduce the friction associated with your habits is to practice environment design. You can also optimize your environment to make actions easier. For example, when deciding where to practice a new habit, it is best to choose a place that is already along the path of your daily routine. Habits are easier to build when they fit into the flow of your life. You are more likely to go to the gym if it is on your way to work because stopping doesn’t add much friction to your lifestyle. 
    - The central idea is to create an environment where doing the right thing is as easy as possible. Much of the battle of building better habits comes down to finding ways to reduce the friction associated with our good habits and increase the friction associated with our bad ones.   
    - **Whenever you organize a space for its intended purpose, you are priming it to make the next action easy**. There are many ways to prime your environment so it’s ready for immediate use. If you want to cook a healthy breakfast, place the skillet on the stove, set the cooking spray on the counter, and lay out any plates and utensils you’ll need the night before. When you wake up, making breakfast will be easy. 
    - **Increase the friction associated with bad behaviors. When friction is high, habits are difficult**.     
     
            