- **Introduction**
    - Deep Work: **Professional activities performed in a state of distraction-free concentration that push your cognitive capabilities to their limit. These efforts create new value, improve your skill, and are hard to replicate**.
    - Shallow Work: **Noncognitively demanding, logistical-style tasks, often performed while distracted. These efforts tend to not create much new value in the world and are easy to replicate**.     
    - Deep work is not an old-fashioned skill falling into irrelevance. It’s instead a crucial ability for anyone looking to move ahead in a globally competitive information economy that tends to chew up and spit out those who aren’t earning their keep. **The real rewards are reserved not for those who are comfortable using Facebook (a shallow task, easily replicated), but instead for those who are comfortable building the innovative distributed systems that run the service (a decidedly deep task, hard to replicate)**. Deep work is so important that we might consider it, to use the phrasing of business writer Eric Barker, “the superpower of the 21st century.”         
    - **The Deep Work Hypothesis:** The ability to perform deep work is becoming increasingly rare at exactly the same time it is becoming increasingly valuable in our economy. As a consequence, the few who cultivate this skill, and then make it the core of their working life, will thrive.  
    - Cal Newport "My commitment to depth has rewarded me. In the ten-year period following my college graduation, I published four books, earned a PhD, wrote peer-reviewed academic papers at a high rate, and was hired as a tenure-track professor at Georgetown University. I maintained this voluminous production while rarely working past five or six p.m. during the workweek.
    - **This compressed schedule is possible because I’ve invested significant effort to minimize the shallow in my life while making sure I get the most out of the time this frees up**. I build my days around a core of carefully chosen deep work, with the shallow activities I absolutely cannot avoid batched into smaller bursts at the peripheries of my schedule. **Three to four hours a day, five days a week, of uninterrupted and carefully directed concentration, it turns out, can produce a lot of valuable output**".

- **Chapter-1: Deep Work Is Valuable**       
    - Two Core Abilities for Thriving in the New Economy: 
        - The ability to quickly master hard things.
        - The ability to produce at an elite level, in terms of both quality and speed.    
    - **If you don’t produce, you won’t thrive—no matter how skilled or talented you are**. 
    - **The two core abilities just described depend on your ability to perform deep work**.    
    - To learn requires intense concentration. 
    - **To learn hard things quickly, you must focus intensely without distraction**. To learn, in other words, is an act of deep work. If you’re comfortable going deep, you’ll be comfortable mastering the increasingly complex systems and skills needed to thrive in our economy.   
    - **The differences between expert performers and normal adults reflect a life-long period of deliberate effort to improve performance in a specific domain.**  
    - Core components of deliberate practice are usually identified as follows: 
        - your attention is focused tightly on a specific skill you’re trying to improve or an idea you’re trying to master; 
        - you receive feedback so you can correct your approach to keep your attention exactly where it’s most productive. 
      The first component is of particular importance to our discussion, as **it emphasizes that deliberate practice cannot exist alongside distraction, and that it instead requires uninterrupted concentration**. 
      As Ericsson emphasizes, “Diffused attention is almost antithetical to the focused attention required by deliberate practice”        
    - Adam Grant doesn’t work substantially more hours than the average professor at an elite research institution, but he still manages to produce more than just about anyone else in his field. I argue that his approach to batching helps explain this paradox. In particular, **by consolidating his work into intense and uninterrupted pulses, he’s leveraging the following law of productivity**:
      **High-Quality Work Produced = (Time Spent) x (Intensity of Focus)**  
    - **Attention Residue:** The problem this research identifies with this work strategy is that when you switch from some Task A to another Task B, your attention doesn’t immediately follow—a residue of your attention remains stuck thinking about the original task. This residue gets especially thick if your work on Task A was unbounded and of low intensity before you switched, but even if you finish Task A before moving on, your attention remains divided for a while.  
    - The concept of attention residue helps explain why the intensity formula is true and therefore helps explain Grant’s productivity. **By working on a single hard task for a long time without switching, Grant minimizes the negative impact of attention residue from his other obligations, allowing him to maximize performance on this one task**. When Grant is working for days in isolation on a paper, in other words, he’s doing so at a higher level of effectiveness than the standard professor following a more distracted strategy in which the work is repeatedly interrupted by residue-slathering interruptions. 
    - **To produce at your peak level you need to work for extended periods with full concentration on a single task free from distraction**. Put another way, the type of work that optimizes your performance is deep work. If you’re not comfortable going deep for extended periods of time, it’ll be difficult to get your performance to the peak levels of quality and quantity increasingly necessary to thrive professionally. Unless your talent and skills absolutely dwarf those of your competition, the deep workers among them will outproduce you.      
    
- **Chapter-2: Deep Work Is Rare**  
    - Why do so many follow the lead of the Boston Consulting Group and foster a culture of connectivity even though it’s likely that it hurts employees’ well-being and productivity, and probably doesn’t help the bottom line? Because its easier(The Principle of Least Resistance).
    - **The Principle of Least Resistance:** In a business setting, without clear feedback on the impact of various behaviors to the bottom line, we will tend toward behaviors that are easiest in the moment. 
    - **Busyness as Proxy for Productivity**: In the absence of clear indicators of what it means to be productive and valuable in their jobs, many knowledge workers turn back toward an industrial indicator of productivity: doing lots of stuff in a visible manner.        
    
- **Chapter-3: Deep Work Is Meaningful**    
    - **A Neurological Argument for Depth**
        - We tend to place a lot of emphasis on our circumstances, assuming that what happens to us (or fails to happen) determines how we feel. From this perspective, the small-scale details of how you spend your day aren’t that important, because what matters are the large-scale outcomes, such as whether or not you get a promotion or move to that nicer apartment. According to Gallagher, decades of research contradict this understanding. Our brains instead construct our worldview based on what we pay attention to. If you focus on a cancer diagnosis, you and your life become unhappy and dark, but if you focus instead on an evening martini, you and your life become more pleasant—even though the circumstances in both scenarios are the same. As Gallagher summarizes: “**Who you are, what you think, feel, and do, what you love—is the sum of what you focus on**.”       
        - **the idle mind is the devil’s workshop’… when you lose focus, your mind tends to fix on what could be wrong with your life instead of what’s right**.” A workday driven by the shallow, from a neurological perspective, is likely to be a draining and upsetting day, even if most of the shallow things that capture your attention seem harmless or fun.  
    - **A Psychological Argument for Depth**    
        - The best moments usually occur when a person’s body or mind is stretched to its limits in a voluntary effort to accomplish something difficult and worthwhile.     
        - Deep work is an activity well suited to generate a flow state (the phrases used by Csikszentmihalyi to describe what generates flow include notions of stretching your mind to its limits, concentrating, and losing yourself in an activity—all of which also describe deep work). And as we just learned, flow generates happiness. Combining these two ideas we get a powerful argument from psychology in favor of depth.      
        - **To build your working life around the experience of flow produced by deep work is a proven path to deep satisfaction.**     
    - **A Philosophical Argument for Depth**  
        - Any pursuit—be it physical or cognitive—that supports high levels of skill can also generate a sense of sacredness.    
        - Deep work, therefore, is key to extracting meaning from your profession in the manner described by Dreyfus and Kelly. It follows that to embrace deep work in your own career, and to direct it toward cultivating your skill, is an effort that can transform a knowledge work job from a distracted, draining obligation into something satisfying—a portal to a world full of shining, wondrous things.        
        
- **Rule-1: Work Deeply**
    - **The Monastic Philosophy of Deep Work Scheduling**           
        - This philosophy attempts to maximize deep efforts by eliminating or radically minimizing shallow obligations.     
    - **The Bimodal Philosophy of Deep Work Scheduling**    
        - **This philosophy asks that you divide your time, dedicating some clearly defined stretches to deep pursuits and leaving the rest open to everything else**. During the deep time, the bimodal worker will act monastically—seeking intense and uninterrupted concentration. During the shallow time, such focus is not prioritized. This division of time between deep and open can happen on multiple scales. For example, on the scale of a week, you might dedicate a four-day weekend to depth and the rest to open time. Similarly, on the scale of a year, you might dedicate one season to contain most of your deep stretches.   
        - The bimodal philosophy believes that **deep work can produce extreme productivity, but only if the subject dedicates enough time to such endeavors to reach maximum cognitive intensity—the state in which real breakthroughs occur**. This is why the minimum unit of time for deep work in this philosophy tends to be at least one full day. To put aside a few hours in the morning, for example, is too short to count as a deep work stretch for an adherent of this approach.             
    - **The Rhythmic Philosophy of Deep Work Scheduling**
        - This philosophy argues that **the easiest way to consistently start deep work sessions is to transform them into a simple regular habit. **The goal, in other words, is to generate a rhythm for this work that removes the need for you to invest energy in deciding if and when you’re going to go deep**. 
          The chain method is a good example of the rhythmic philosophy of deep work scheduling because it combines a simple scheduling heuristic (do the work every day), with an easy way to remind yourself to do the work: the big red Xs on the calendar.    
        - The rhythmic philosophy provides an interesting contrast to the bimodal philosophy. **It perhaps fails to achieve the most intense levels of deep thinking sought in the daylong concentration sessions favored by the bimodalist. The trade-off, however, is that this approach works better with the reality of human nature**. By supporting deep work with rock-solid routines that make sure a little bit gets done on a regular basis, the rhythmic scheduler will often log a larger total number of deep hours per year.      
    - **The Journalistic Philosophy of Deep Work Scheduling**      
        - I call this approach, in which you fit deep work wherever you can into your schedule, the journalist philosophy.      
        - This approach is not for the deep work novice. As I established in the opening to this rule, the ability to rapidly switch your mind from shallow to deep mode doesn’t come naturally. Without practice, such switches can seriously deplete your finite willpower reserves. This habit also **requires a sense of confidence in your abilities— a conviction that what you’re doing is important and will succeed**. This type of conviction is typically built on a foundation of existing professional accomplishment.     
    - **Ritualize:** To make the most out of your deep work sessions, build rituals of the same level of strictness and idiosyncrasy as the important thinkers mentioned previously. There’s a good reason for this mimicry. Great minds like Caro and Darwin didn’t deploy rituals to be weird; they did so because success in their work depended on their ability to go deep, again and again—there’s no way to win a Pulitzer Prize or conceive a grand theory without pushing your brain to its limit.        
    - There’s no one correct deep work ritual—the right fit depends on both the person and the type of project pursued. But there are some general questions that any effective ritual must address:
        - Where you’ll work and for how long.             
        - How you’ll work once you start to work.
        - How you’ll support your work.
    - **The 4DX(4 Disciplines of Execution) framework** 
        - **D1: Focus on the Wildly Important** The execution should be aimed at a small number of “wildly important goals.” This simplicity will help focus an organization’s energy to a sufficient intensity to ignite real results. **For an individual focused on deep work, the implication is that you should identify a small number of ambitious outcomes to pursue with your deep work hours**.     
        - **D2: Act on the Lead Measures** For an individual focused on deep work, it’s easy to identify the relevant lead measure: **time spent in a state of deep work dedicated toward your wildly important goal**. 
        - **D3: Keep a Compelling Scoreboard** In the preceding discipline, I argued that for an individual focused on deep work, hours spent working deeply should be the lead measure. It follows, therefore, that the individual’s scoreboard should be a physical artifact in the workspace that displays the individual’s current deep work hour count.    
        - **D4: Create a Cadence of Accountability** For an individual focused on his or her own deep work habit, there’s likely no team to meet with, but this doesn’t exempt you from the need for regular accountability. In multiple places throughout this book I discuss and recommend the habit of a weekly review in which you make a plan for the workweek ahead. During my experiments with 4DX, I used a weekly review to look over my scoreboard to celebrate good weeks, help understand what led to bad weeks, and most important, figure out how to ensure a good score for the days ahead. This led me to adjust my schedule to meet the needs of my lead measure—enabling significantly more deep work than if I had avoided such reviews altogether.  
    - Trying to squeeze a little more work out of your evenings might reduce your effectiveness the next day enough that you end up getting less done than if you had instead respected a shutdown. 
    - Your capacity for deep work in a given day is limited. 
    - **The Shutdown Ritual:**
        - To succeed with this strategy, you must first accept the commitment that once your workday shuts down, you cannot allow even the smallest incursion of professional concerns into your field of attention. This includes, crucially, checking e-mail, as well as browsing work-related websites. In both cases, even a brief intrusion of work can generate a self-reinforcing stream of distraction that impedes the shutdown advantages described earlier for a long time to follow.    
        - Another key commitment for succeeding with this strategy is to support your commitment to shutting down with a strict shutdown ritual that you use at the end of the workday to maximize the probability that you succeed. In more detail, this ritual should ensure that every incomplete task, goal, or project has been reviewed and that for each you have confirmed that either (1) you have a plan you trust for its completion, or (2) it’s captured in a place where it will be revisited when the time is right. 
        - The shutdown ritual described earlier leverages this tactic to battle the Zeigarnik effect. While it doesn’t force you to explicitly identify a plan for every single task in your task list (a burdensome requirement), it does force you to capture every task in a common list, and then review these tasks before making a plan for the next day. This ritual ensures that no task will be forgotten: Each will be reviewed daily and tackled when the time is appropriate. Your mind, in other words, is released from its duty to keep track of these obligations at every moment—your shutdown ritual has taken over that responsibility.
    - Decades of work from multiple different subfields within psychology all point toward the conclusion that **regularly resting your brain improves the quality of your deep work. When you work, work hard. When you’re done, be done**.    
    
- **Rule-2: Embrace Boredom**   
    - The ability to concentrate intensely is a skill that must be trained.        
    - Much in the same way that athletes must take care of their bodies outside of their training sessions, **you’ll struggle to achieve the deepest levels of concentration if you spend the rest of your time fleeing the slightest hint of boredom**.    
    - **People who multitask all the time can’t filter out irrelevancy. They can’t manage a working memory. They’re chronically distracted. They initiate much larger parts of their brain that are irrelevant to the task at hand**… they’re pretty much mental wrecks.    
    - **This strategy works even if your job requires lots of Internet use and/or prompt e-mail replies.**  
        - If you’re required to spend hours every day online or answer e-mails quickly, that’s fine: This simply means that your Internet blocks will be more numerous than those of someone whose job requires less connectivity. The total number or duration of your Internet blocks doesn’t matter nearly as much as making sure that the integrity of your offline blocks remains intact.  
    - **Regardless of how you schedule your Internet blocks, you must keep the time outside these blocks absolutely free from Internet use.**   
        - It’s crucial in this situation, therefore, that you don’t immediately abandon an offline block, even when stuck. If it’s possible, switch to another offline activity for the remainder of the current block (or perhaps even fill in this time relaxing).        
    - **Scheduling Internet use at home as well as at work can further improve your concentration training.**   
    - To summarize, **to succeed with deep work you must rewire your brain to be comfortable resisting distracting stimuli**.          
    - **Work Like Teddy Roosevelt**    
        - In particular, identify a deep task that’s high on your priority list. Estimate how long you’d normally put aside for an obligation of this type, then give yourself a hard deadline that drastically reduces this time. If possible, commit publicly to the deadline—for example, by telling the person expecting the finished project when they should expect it.   
        - At this point, **there should be only one possible way to get the deep task done in time: working with great intensity**—no e-mail breaks, no daydreaming, no Facebook browsing, no repeated trips to the coffee machine. Like Roosevelt at Harvard, attack the task with every free neuron until it gives way under your unwavering barrage of concentration.    
    - **Productive Meditation:** The goal is to take a period in which you’re occupied physically but not mentally—walking, jogging, driving, showering—and focus your attention on a single well-defined professional problem. Depending on your profession, this problem might be outlining an article, writing a talk, making progress on a proof, or attempting to sharpen a business strategy. As in mindfulness meditation, you must continue to bring your attention back to the problem at hand when it wanders or stalls.  
    
- **Rule-3: Quit Social Media** 
    - **The Any-Benefit Approach to Network Tool Selection:** You’re justified in using a network tool if you can identify any possible benefit to its use, or anything you might possibly miss out on if you don’t use it. 
    - **The Craftsman Approach to Tool Selection:** Identify the core factors that determine success and happiness in your professional and personal life. Adopt a tool only if its positive impacts on these factors substantially outweigh its negative impacts.  
            