##Part I. Foundations of Data Systems

- **Chapter-1: Reliable, Scalable, and Maintainable Applications**
    - **Reliability**
        - The system should continue to work correctly (performing the correct function at the desired level of performance) even in the face of adversity (hardware or software faults, and even human error).
        - The things that can go wrong are called faults, and systems that anticipate faults and can cope with them are called **fault-tolerant or resilient**.
        - Note that a fault is not the same as a failure . A fault is usually defined as one component of the system deviating from its spec, whereas a failure is when the system as a whole stops providing the required service to the user. It is impossible to reduce the probability of a fault to zero; therefore it is usually best to design fault-tolerance mechanisms that prevent faults from causing failures.
        - Following are the kinds of faults that can be cured, as described in the following sections:-
            1. Hardware Faults
            2. Software Errors
            3. Human Errors
        - Set up detailed and clear monitoring, such as performance metrics and error rates. In other engineering disciplines this is referred to as **telemetry**. 
    - **Scalability**
        - Scalability is the term we use to describe a system’s ability to cope with increased load. 
        - **Describing Load:**
            - Load can be described with a few numbers which we call load parameters. The best choice of parameters depends on the architecture of your system: it may be requests per second to a web server, the ratio of reads to writes in a database, the number of simultaneously active users in a chat room, the hit rate on a cache, or something else.
            - For ex. Two of Twitter’s main operations are:
                - Post tweet: 4.6k requests/sec on average, over 12k requests/sec at peak
                - Home timeline: 300k requests/sec
            - Twitter’s scaling challenge is not primarily due to tweet volume, but due to **fan-out**—each user follows many people, and each user is followed by many people.
            - On average, a tweet is delivered to about 75 followers, so 4.6k tweets per second become 345k writes per second to the home timeline caches.
        - **Describing Performance:**
            - In a batch processing(Hadoop), we usually care about throughput—the number of records we can process per second, or the total time it takes to run a job on a dataset of a certain size. 
            - In online systems, what’s usually more important is the service’s response time—that is, the time between a client sending a request and receiving a response.
            - Latency and response time are often used synonymously, but they are not the same. The response time is what the client sees: besides the actual time to process the request (the service time), it includes network delays and queueing delays. Latency is the duration that a request is waiting to be handled—during which it is latent, awaiting service
            - Even if you only make the same request over and over again, you’ll get a slightly different response time on every try. In practice, in a system handling a variety of requests, the response time can vary a lot. We therefore need to think of response time not as a single number, but as a distribution of values that you can measure.
            - It’s common to see the average response time of a service reported. Usually it is better to use percentiles. If you take your list of response times and sort it from fastest to slowest, then the median is the halfway point(AKA 50th percentile OR p50).
            - In order to figure out how bad your outliers are: the 95th, 99th, and 99.9th percentiles are common (abbreviated p95, p99, and p999). High percentiles of response times are also known as **tail latencies**. For example, if the 95th percentile response time is 1.5 seconds, that means 95 out of 100 requests take less than 1.5 seconds, and 5 out of 100 requests take 1.5 seconds or more.
            - For example, percentiles are often used in service level objectives (SLOs) and service level agreements (SLAs), contracts that define the expected performance and availability of a service. An SLA may state that the service is considered to be up if it has a median response time of less than 200 ms and a 99th percentile under 1 s (if the response time is longer, it might as well be down), and the service may be required to be up at least 99.9% of the time.         
            - Queueing delays often account for a large part of the response time at high percentiles. As a server can only process a small number of things in parallel (limited, for example, by its number of CPU cores), it only takes a small number of slow requests to hold up the processing of subsequent requests—an effect sometimes known as head-of-line blocking. Even if those subsequent requests are fast to process on the server, the client will see a slow overall response time due to the time waiting for the prior request to complete. Due to this effect, it is important to measure response times on the client side.
            - Even if only a small percentage of backend calls are slow, the chance of getting a slow call increases if an end-user request requires multiple backend calls, and so a higher proportion of end-user requests end up being slow (an effect known as **tail latency amplification.**
        - **Approaches for Coping with Load** 
            - People often talk of a dichotomy between scaling up (vertical scaling, moving to a more powerful machine) and scaling out (horizontal scaling, distributing the load across multiple smaller machines). Distributing load across multiple machines is also known as a **shared-nothing architecture.**
            - Some systems are elastic, meaning that they can automatically add computing resources when they detect a load increase, whereas other systems are scaled manually. An **elastic system** can be useful if load is highly unpredictable, but manually scaled systems are simpler and may have fewer operational surprises.
            - The architecture of systems that operate at large scale is usually highly specific to the application—there is no such thing as a generic scalable architecture. The problem may be the volume of reads, the volume of writes, the volume of data to store, the complexity of the data, the response time requirements, the access patterns, or (usually) some mixture of all of these plus many more issues.
            - For example, a system that is designed to handle 100,000 requests per second, each 1 kB in size, looks very different from a system that is designed for 3 requests per minute, each 2 GB in size—even though the two systems have the same data throughput.
    - **Maintainability**
        - To this end, we will pay particular attention to three design principles for software systems:
            1. **Operability**
                - Make it easy for operations teams to keep the system running smoothly.
            2. **Simplicity**
                - Make it easy for new engineers to understand the system, by removing as much complexity as possible from the system. (Note this is not the same as simplicity of the user interface.)
                - There are various possible symptoms of complexity: explosion of the state space, tight coupling of modules, tangled dependencies, inconsistent naming and terminology, hacks aimed at solving performance problems
                - One of the best tools we have for removing accidental complexity is abstraction.
            3. **Evolvability**
                - Make it easy for engineers to make changes to the system in the future, adapting it for unanticipated use cases as requirements change. Also known as extensibility, modifiability, or plasticity.
                
- **Chapter-2: Data Models and Query Languages**
    - **Polyglot Persistence:** A data system in which relational DB and NoSQL DB are used alongside each other.
    - **The Object-Relational Mismatch:** Most application development today is done in object-oriented programming languages, which leads to a common criticism of the SQL data model: if data is stored in relational tables, an awkward translation layer is required between the objects in the application code and the database model of tables, rows, and columns. The disconnect between the models is sometimes called an impedance mismatch.
    - Document-oriented databases - MongoDB, RethinkDB, CouchDB and Espresso support this data model.
    - eg: The JSON representation has better locality than the multi-table schema in RDBMS. If you want to fetch a profile in the relational example, you need to either perform multiple queries (query each table by user_id) or perform a messy multiway join between the users table and its subordinate tables. In the JSON representation, all the relevant information is in one place, and one query is sufficient. The one-to-many relationships from the user profile to the user’s positions, educational history, and contact information imply a tree structure in the data, and the JSON representation makes this tree structure explicit.
    - Whether you store an ID or a text string is a question of duplication. When you use an ID, the information that is meaningful to humans (such as the word Philanthropy) is stored in only one place, and everything that refers to it uses an ID (which only has meaning within the database). When you store the text directly, you are duplicating the human-meaningful information in every record that uses it.
    - The advantage of using an ID is that because it has no meaning to humans, it never needs to change: the ID can remain the same, even if the information it identifies changes. Anything that is meaningful to humans may need to change sometime in the future—and if that information is duplicated, all the redundant copies need to be updated. That incurs write overheads, and risks inconsistencies (where some copies of the information are updated but others aren’t). Removing such duplication is the key idea behind normalization in databases.
    - While many-to-many relationships and joins are routinely used in relational databases, document databases and NoSQL reopened the debate on how best to represent such relationships in a database.
    - Document databases reverted back to the hierarchical model in one aspect: storing nested records (one-to-many relationships, like positions, education, and contact_info) within their parent record rather than in a separate table.
    - However, when it comes to representing many-to-one and many-to-many relationships, relational and document databases are not fundamentally different: **in both cases, the related item is referenced by a unique identifier, which is called a foreign key in the relational model and a document reference in the document model**.
    - **Relational Versus Document Databases Today**
        - The main arguments in favor of the document data model are schema flexibility, better performance due to locality, and that for some applications it is closer to the data structures used by the application. The relational model counters by providing better support for joins, and many-to-one and many-to-many relationships.
        - It’s not possible to say in general which data model leads to simpler application code; it depends on the kinds of relationships that exist between data items. For highly interconnected data, the document model is awkward, the relational model is acceptable, and graph models are the most natural.
         1. **Schema flexibility in the document model**
            - Most document databases, and the JSON support in relational databases, do not enforce any schema on the data in documents. No schema means that arbitrary keys and values can be added to a document, and when reading, clients have no guarantees as to what fields the documents may contain.
            - Document databases are sometimes called schemaless, but that’s misleading, as the code that reads the data usually assumes some kind of structure—i.e., there is an implicit schema, but it is not enforced by the database. A more accurate term is schema-on-read (the structure of the data is implicit, and only interpreted when the data is read), in contrast with schema-on-write (the traditional approach of relational databases, where the schema is explicit and the database ensures all written data conforms to it.
         2. **Data locality for queries**
            - If your application often needs to access the entire document (for example, to render it on a web page), there is a performance advantage to this storage locality. If data is split across multiple tables, multiple index lookups are required to retrieve it all, which may require more disk seeks and take more time.
            - It’s worth pointing out that the idea of grouping related data together for locality is not limited to the document model. For example, Google’s Spanner database offers the same locality properties in a relational data model, by allowing the schema to declare that a table’s rows should be interleaved (nested) within a parent table. Oracle allows the same, using a feature called multi-table index cluster tables. The column-family concept in the Bigtable data model (used in Cassandra and HBase) has a similar purpose of managing locality
    - **Graph-Like Data Models**          
        - The relational model can handle simple cases of many-to-many relationships, but as the connections within your data become more complex, it becomes more natural to start modeling your data as a graph.
        - A graph consists of two kinds of objects: vertices (also known as nodes or entities) and edges (also known as relationships or arcs). Many kinds of data can be modeled as a graph. Typical examples include:
            - Social graphs(Vertices are people, and edges indicate which people know each other)
            - The web graph(Vertices are web pages, and edges indicate HTML links to other pages)
        - Well-known algorithms can operate on these graphs: for example, car navigation systems search for the shortest path between two points in a road network, and PageRank can be used on the web graph to determine the popularity of a web page and thus its ranking in search results. 
        - In the examples just given, all the vertices in a graph represent the same kind of thing (people, web pages, or road junctions, respectively). However, graphs are not limited to such homogeneous data: an equally powerful use of graphs is to provide a consistent way of storing completely different types of objects in a single datastore. For example, Facebook maintains a single graph with many different types of vertices and edges: vertices represent people, locations, events, checkins, and comments made by users; edges indicate which people are friends with each other, which checkin happened in which location, who commented on which post, who attended which event etc.
        - There are several different, but related, ways of structuring and querying data in graphs:-
            1. **Property Graphs:**
                - In the property graph model, each vertex consists of: A unique identifier, A set of outgoing edges, A set of incoming edges, A collection of properties (key-value pairs)
                  Each edge consists of: A unique identifier , The vertex at which the edge starts (the tail vertex) , The vertex at which the edge ends (the head vertex) , A label to describe the kind of relationship between the two vertices , A collection of properties (key-value pairs)
                - Some important aspects of this model are:
                    1. Any vertex can have an edge connecting it with any other vertex. There is no schema that restricts which kinds of things can or cannot be associated.
                    2. Given any vertex, you can efficiently find both its incoming and its outgoing edges, and thus traverse the graph—i.e., follow a path through a chain of vertices —both forward and backward. 
                    3. By using different labels for different kinds of relationships, you can store several different kinds of information in a single graph, while still maintaining a clean data model.
            2. **Triple-Stores and SPARQL:**          
                - In a triple-store, all information is stored in the form of very simple three-part statements: (subject, predicate, object). For example, in the triple (Jim, likes, bananas), Jim is the subject, likes is the predicate (verb), and bananas is the object.
                - The subject of a triple is equivalent to a vertex in a graph. The object is one of two things:
                    1. A value in a primitive datatype, such as a string or a number. In that case, the predicate and object of the triple are equivalent to the key and value of a property on the subject vertex. For example, (lucy, age, 33) is like a vertex lucy with properties {"age":33}.
                    2. Another vertex in the graph. In that case, the predicate is an edge in the graph, the subject is the tail vertex, and the object is the head vertex. For example, in (lucy, marriedTo, alain) the subject and object lucy and alain are both vertices, and the predicate marriedTo is the label of the edge that connects them.

- **Chapter-3: Storage and Retrieval**                   
    - Many databases internally use a log(**log** is often used to refer to application logs, where an application outputs text that describes what’s happening. In this book, log is used in the more general sense: an append-only sequence of records. It doesn’t have to be human-readable; it might be binary and intended only for other programs to read).
    - In order to efficiently find the value for a particular key in the database, we need a different data structure: an index.
    - An **index** is an additional structure that is derived from the primary data. Many databases allow you to add and remove indexes, and this doesn’t affect the contents of the database; it only affects the performance of queries. Maintaining additional structures incurs overhead, especially on writes. Any kind of index usually slows down writes, because the index also needs to be updated every time data is written.
    - This is an important trade-off in storage systems: **well-chosen indexes speed up read queries, but every index slows down writes.**
    - **Hash Indexes**
        - Let’s say our data storage consists only of appending to a file, as in the preceding example. Then the simplest possible indexing strategy is this: keep an in-memory hash map where every key is mapped to a byte offset in the data file—the location at which the value can be found. Whenever you append a new key-value pair to the file, you also update the hash map to reflect the offset of the data you just wrote(this works both for inserting new keys and for updating existing keys).
        - As described so far, we only ever append to a file—so how do we avoid eventually running out of disk space? A good solution is to break the log into segments of a certain size by closing a segment file when it reaches a certain size, and making subsequent writes to a new segment file. We can then perform compaction on these segments(**Compaction** means throwing away duplicate keys in the log, and keeping only the most recent update for each key).
        - Since compaction often makes segments much smaller (assuming that a key is overwritten several times on average within one segment), we can also merge several segments together at the same time as performing the compaction. Segments are never modified after they have been written, so the merged segment is written to a new file. The merging and compaction of frozen segments can be done in a background thread, and while it is going on, we can still continue to serve read and write requests as normal, using the old segment files. After the merging process is complete, we switch read requests to using the new merged segment instead of the old segments—and then the old segment files can simply be deleted.
        - Some of the issues that are important in a real implementation are:
            - File format
                - CSV is not the best format for a log. It’s faster and simpler to use a binary format that first encodes the length of a string in bytes, followed by the raw string (without need for escaping).
            - Deleting records
                - If you want to delete a key and its associated value, you have to append a special deletion record to the data file (sometimes called a tombstone). When log segments are merged, the tombstone tells the merging process to discard any previous values for the deleted key.
            - Crash recovery
                - If the database is restarted, the in-memory hash maps are lost. In principle, you can restore each segment’s hash map by reading the entire segment file from beginning to end and noting the offset of the most recent value for every key as you go along. However, that might take a long time if the segment files are large, which would make server restarts painful. Bitcask speeds up recovery by storing a snapshot of each segment’s hash map on disk, which can be loaded into memory more quickly.
            - Partially written records
                - The database may crash at any time, including halfway through appending a record to the log. Bitcask files include checksums, allowing such corrupted parts of the log to be detected and ignored.
            - Concurrency control
                - As writes are appended to the log in a strictly sequential order, a common implementation choice is to have only one writer thread. Data file segments are append-only and otherwise immutable, so they can be read concurrently by multiple threads.
        - Append-only log design turns out to be good for several reasons:
            1. Appending and segment merging are sequential write operations, which are generally much faster than random writes, especially on magnetic spinning-disk hard drives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
            2. Concurrency and crash recovery are much simpler if segment files are appendonly or immutable.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
            3. Merging old segments avoids the problem of data files getting fragmented over time.
        - The hash table index also has limitations:
            1. The hash table must fit in memory, so if you have a very large number of keys, you’re out of luck.    
            2. Range queries are not efficient. For example, you cannot easily scan over all keys between kitty00000 and kitty99999—you’d have to look up each key individually in the hash maps.
    - **Sorted String Table/SSTable**        
        - The sequence of key-value pairs for each log segment is sorted by key.
        - SSTables have several big advantages over log segments with hash indexes:
            1. Merging segments is simple and efficient, even if the files are bigger than the available memory. The approach is like the one used in the mergesort algorithm, you start reading the input files side by side, look at the first key in each file, copy the lowest key (according to the sort order) to the output file, and repeat. This produces a new merged segment file, also sorted by key.
            2. In order to find a particular key in the file, you no longer need to keep an index of all the keys in memory. Say you’re looking for the key handiwork, but you don’t know the exact offset of that key in the segment file. However, you do know the offsets for the keys handbag and handsome, and because of the sorting you know that handiwork must appear between those two. This means you can jump to the offset for handbag and scan from there until you find handiwork (or not, if the key is not present in the file).
               You still need an in-memory index to tell you the offsets for some of the keys, but it can be sparse: one key for every few kilobytes of segment file is sufficient, because a few kilobytes can be scanned very quickly.
            3. Since read requests need to scan over several key-value pairs in the requested range anyway, it is possible to group those records into a block and compress it before writing it to disk. Each entry of the sparse in-memory index then points at the start of a compressed block. Besides saving disk space, compression also reduces the I/O bandwidth use.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
        - how do you get your data to be sorted by key in the first place? Maintaining a sorted structure on disk is possible (B-Trees), but maintaining it in memory is much easier. There are plenty of well-known tree data structures that you can use, such as red-black trees or AVL trees. With these data structures, you can insert keys in any order and read them back in sorted order.
        - A **full-text index** is much more complex than a key-value index but is based on a similar idea: given a word in a search query, find all the documents (web pages, product descriptions, etc.) that mention the word. This is implemented with a key-value structure where the key is a word (a term) and the value is the list of IDs of all the documents that contain the word (the postings list).
        - There are also different strategies to determine the order and timing of how SSTables are compacted and merged. The most common options are size-tiered and leveled compaction. LevelDB and RocksDB use leveled compaction (hence the name of LevelDB), HBase uses size-tiered, and Cassandra supports both. In size-tiered compaction, newer and smaller SSTables are successively merged into older and larger SSTables. In leveled compaction, the key range is split up into smaller SSTables and older data is moved into separate “levels,” which allows the compaction to proceed more incrementally and use less disk space.
        - This implementation using SSTable is also known as LSM Tree.
    - **B-Trees**
        - The log-structured indexes we saw earlier break the database down into variable-size segments, typically several megabytes or more in size, and always write a segment sequentially. By contrast, B-trees break the database down into fixed-size blocks or pages, traditionally 4 KB in size (sometimes bigger), and read or write one page at a time. This design corresponds more closely to the underlying hardware, as disks are also arranged in fixed-size blocks.
        - Each page can be identified using an address or location, which allows one page to refer to another—similar to a pointer, but on disk instead of in memory. We can use these page references to construct a tree of pages. One page is designated as the root of the B-tree; whenever you want to look up a key in the index, you start here. The page contains several keys and references to child pages. Each child is responsible for a continuous range of keys, and the keys between the references indicate where the boundaries between those ranges lie.
        - The number of references to child pages in one page of the B-tree is called the branching factor. In practice, the branching factor depends on the amount of space required to store the page references and the range boundaries, but typically it is several hundred.
        - **Making B-trees reliable**
            - In order to make the database resilient to crashes, it is common for B-tree implementations to include an additional data structure on disk: **a write-ahead log** (WAL, also known as a redo log). This is an append-only file to which every B-tree modification must be written before it can be applied to the pages of the tree itself. When the database comes back up after a crash, this log is used to restore the B-tree back to a consistent state
            - An additional complication of updating pages in place is that careful concurrency control is required if multiple threads are going to access the B-tree at the same time —otherwise a thread may see the tree in an inconsistent state. This is typically done by protecting the tree’s data structures with latches (lightweight locks). Logstructured approaches are simpler in this regard, because they do all the merging in the background without interfering with incoming queries and atomically swap old segments for new segments from time to time.
        - **B-tree optimizations**
            - Instead of overwriting pages and maintaining a WAL for crash recovery, some databases (like LMDB) use a copy-on-write scheme. **A modified page is written to a different location, and a new version of the parent pages in the tree is created, pointing at the new location. This approach is also useful for concurrency control.**    
            - We can save space in pages by not storing the entire key, but abbreviating it. Especially in pages on the interior of the tree, keys only need to provide enough information to act as boundaries between key ranges. Packing more keys into a page allows the tree to have a higher branching factor, and thus fewer levels.(B+ Trees)
    - **Comparing B-Trees and LSM-Trees**
        - As a rule of thumb, LSM-trees are typically faster for writes, whereas B-trees are thought to be faster for reads. Reads are typically slower on LSM-trees because they have to check several different data structures and SSTables at different stages of compaction.
        - **Advantages of LSM-trees**
            - A B-tree index must write every piece of data at least twice: once to the write-ahead log, and once to the tree page itself (and perhaps again as pages are split). There is also overhead from having to write an entire page at a time, even if only a few bytes in that page changed. Some storage engines even overwrite the same page twice in order to avoid ending up with a partially updated page in the event of a power failure. Log-structured indexes also rewrite data multiple times due to repeated compaction and merging of SSTables. This effect—one write to the database resulting in multiple writes to the disk over the course of the database’s lifetime—is known as **write amplification.**
            - LSM-trees are typically able to sustain higher write throughput than Btrees, partly because they sometimes have lower write amplification (although this depends on the storage engine configuration and workload), and partly because they sequentially write compact SSTable files rather than having to overwrite several pages in the tree.
            - LSM-trees can be compressed better, and thus often produce smaller files on disk than B-trees. B-tree storage engines leave some disk space unused due to fragmentation: when a page is split or when a row cannot fit into an existing page, some space in a page remains unused. Since LSM-trees are not page-oriented and periodically rewrite SSTables to remove fragmentation, they have lower storage overheads, especially when using leveled compaction
        - **Downsides of LSM-trees**
            - A downside of log-structured storage is that the compaction process can sometimes interfere with the performance of ongoing reads and writes. Even though storage engines try to perform compaction incrementally and without affecting concurrent access, disks have limited resources, so it can easily happen that a request needs to wait while the disk finishes an expensive compaction operation.     
            - Another issue with compaction arises at high write throughput: the disk’s finite write bandwidth needs to be shared between the initial write (logging and flushing a memtable to disk) and the compaction threads running in the background. When writing to an empty database, the full disk bandwidth can be used for the initial write, but the bigger the database gets, the more disk bandwidth is required for compaction.
            - If write throughput is high and compaction is not configured carefully, it can happen that compaction cannot keep up with the rate of incoming writes. In this case, the number of unmerged segments on disk keeps growing until you run out of disk space, and reads also slow down because they need to check more segment files. Typically, SSTable-based storage engines do not throttle the rate of incoming writes, even if compaction cannot keep up, so you need explicit monitoring to detect this situation.
    - **Other Indexing Structures**        
        - So far we have only discussed key-value indexes, which are like a primary key index in the relational model.
        - **Storing values within the index**
            - The key in an index is the thing that queries search for, but the value can be one of two things: it could be the actual row (document, vertex) in question, or it could be a reference to the row stored elsewhere. In the latter case, the place where rows are stored is known as a **heap file**. The heap file approach is common because it avoids duplicating data when multiple secondary indexes are present: each index just references a location in the heap file, and the actual data is kept in one place.
            - When updating a value without changing the key, the heap file approach can be quite efficient: the record can be overwritten in place, provided that the new value is not larger than the old value. 
            - The situation is more complicated if the new value is larger, as it probably needs to be moved to a new location in the heap where there is enough space. In that case, either all indexes need to be updated to point at the new heap location of the record, or a forwarding pointer is left behind in the old heap location.
            - In some situations, the extra hop from the index to the heap file is too much of a performance penalty for reads, so it can be desirable to store the indexed row directly within an index. **This is known as a clustered index.**
            - A compromise between a clustered index (storing all row data within the index) and a nonclustered index (storing only references to the data within the index) is known as a covering index or index with included columns, which stores some of a table’s columns within the index. This allows some queries to be answered by using the index alone (in which case, the index is said to cover the query).
        - **Multi-column indexes**                    
            - The indexes discussed so far only map a single key to a value. That is not sufficient if we need to query multiple columns of a table (or multiple fields in a document) simultaneously.
            - The most common type of multi-column index is called a concatenated index, which simply combines several fields into one key by appending one column to another (the index definition specifies in which order the fields are concatenated). This is like an old-fashioned paper phone book, which provides an index from (lastname, firstname) to phone number. Due to the sort order, the index can be used to find all the people with a particular last name, or all the people with a particular lastnamefirstname combination. However, the index is useless if you want to find all the people with a particular first name.
            - Multi-dimensional indexes are a more general way of querying several columns at once, which is particularly important for geospatial data. For example, a restaurantsearch website may have a database containing the latitude and longitude of each restaurant. When a user is looking at the restaurants on a map, the website needs to search for all the restaurants within the rectangular map area that the user is currently viewing. This requires a two-dimensional range query like the following:
            - **SELECT * FROM restaurants WHERE latitude > 51.4946 AND latitude < 51.5079
              AND longitude > -0.1162 AND longitude < -0.1004;**
            - A standard B-tree or LSM-tree index is not able to answer that kind of query efficiently: it can give you either all the restaurants in a range of latitudes (but at any longitude), or all the restaurants in a range of longitudes (but anywhere between the North and South poles), but not both simultaneously.
        - **Full-text search and fuzzy indexes**    
            - All the indexes discussed so far assume that you have exact data and allow you to query for exact values of a key, or a range of values of a key with a sort order. What they don’t allow you to do is search for similar keys, such as misspelled words. Such fuzzy querying requires different techniques.
            - For example, full-text search engines commonly allow a search for one word to be expanded to include synonyms of the word, to ignore grammatical variations of words, and to search for occurrences of words near each other in the same document, and support various other features that depend on linguistic analysis of the text. To cope with typos in documents or queries, Lucene is able to search text for words within a certain edit distance (**an edit distance** of 1 means that one letter has been added, removed, or replaced).
        - **Keeping everything in memory**    
            - Some in-memory key-value stores, such as Memcached, are intended for caching use only, where it’s acceptable for data to be lost if a machine is restarted. But other inmemory databases aim for durability, which can be achieved with special hardware (such as battery-powered RAM), by writing a log of changes to disk, by writing periodic snapshots to disk, or by replicating the in-memory state to other machines.
            - Counterintuitively, the performance advantage of in-memory databases is not due to the fact that they don’t need to read from disk. Even a disk-based storage engine may never need to read from disk if you have enough memory, because the operating system caches recently used disk blocks in memory anyway. Rather, they can be faster because they can avoid the overheads of encoding in-memory data structures in a form that can be written to disk.
            - Besides performance, another interesting area for in-memory databases is providing data models that are difficult to implement with disk-based indexes. For example, Redis offers a database-like interface to various data structures such as priority queues and sets. Because it keeps all data in memory, its implementation is comparatively simple.
    - **Transaction Processing or Analytics?**
        -  **Stars and Snowflakes: Schemas for Analytics**    
            - In analytics, there is much less diversity of data models. Many data warehouses are used in a fairly formulaic style, known as a star schema (also known as dimensional modeling.
            - At the center of the schema is a so-called **fact table**. Each row of the fact table represents an event that occurred at a particular time (here, each row represents a customer’s purchase of a product).
            - Some of the columns in the fact table are attributes, such as the price at which the product was sold and the cost of buying it from the supplier (allowing the profit margin to be calculated). Other columns in the fact table are foreign key references to other tables, called **dimension tables**. As each row in the fact table represents an event, the dimensions represent the who, what, where, when, how, and why of the event.
            - The name **star schema** comes from the fact that when the table relationships are visualized, the fact table is in the middle, surrounded by its dimension tables; the connections to these tables are like the rays of a star.
            - A variation of this template is known as the **snowflake schema**, where dimensions are further broken down into subdimensions. For example, there could be separate tables for brands and product categories, and each row in the dim_product table could reference the brand and category as foreign keys, rather than storing them as strings in the dim_product table.
        - **Column-Oriented Storage**                
            - If you have trillions of rows and petabytes of data in your fact tables, storing and querying them efficiently becomes a challenging problem. Although fact tables are often over 100 columns wide, a typical data warehouse query only accesses 4 or 5 of them at one time ("SELECT *" queries are rarely needed for analytics).
            - A row-oriented storage engine still needs to load all of those rows (each consisting of over 100 attributes) from disk into memory, parse them, and filter out those that don’t meet the required conditions. That can take a long time.
            - The idea behind column-oriented storage is simple: don’t store all the values from one row together, but store all the values from each column together instead. If each column is stored in a separate file, a query only needs to read and parse those columns that are used in that query, which can save a lot of work.
            - Column storage is easiest to understand in a relational data model, but it applies equally to nonrelational data. For example, Parquet is a columnar storage format that supports a document data model, based on Google’s Dremel.
            - If the sequences of values for each column is quite repetitive, which is a good sign for compression. Depending on the data in the column, different compression techniques can be used. One technique that is particularly effective in data warehouses is bitmap encoding.
            - Cassandra and HBase have a concept of **column families**, which they inherited from Bigtable. However, it is very misleading to call them column-oriented: within each column family, they store all columns from a row together, along with a row key, and they do not use column compression. Thus, the Bigtable model is still mostly row-oriented.
        - **Aggregation: Data Cubes and Materialized Views**    
            - If the same aggregates are used by many different queries, it can be wasteful to crunch through the raw data every time. Why not cache some of the counts or sums that queries use most often? One way of creating such a cache is a materialized view. In a relational data model, it is often defined like a standard (virtual) view: a table-like object whose contents are the results of some query. The difference is that a materialized view is an actual copy of the query results, written to disk, whereas a virtual view is just a shortcut for writing queries. When you read from a virtual view, the SQL engine expands it into the view’s underlying query on the fly and then processes the expanded query.
            - When the underlying data changes, a materialized view needs to be updated, because it is a denormalized copy of the data. The database can do that automatically, but such updates make writes more expensive, which is why materialized views are not often used in OLTP databases.
            - A common special case of a materialized view is known as a **data cube or OLAP cube**. It is a grid of aggregates grouped by different dimensions.


- **Chapter-4: Encoding and Evolution**
    - Old and new versions of the code, and old and new data formats, may potentially all coexist in the system at the same time. In order for the system to continue running smoothly, we need to maintain compatibility in both directions:
        - **Backward compatibility**
            - Newer code can read data that was written by older code.
            - Backward compatibility is normally not hard to achieve: as author of the newer code, you know the format of data written by older code, and so you can explicitly handle it
        - **Forward compatibility**
            - Older code can read data that was written by newer code.
            - Forward compatibility can be trickier, because it requires older code to ignore additions made by a newer version of the code.
    - **Formats for Encoding Data**        
        - Programs usually work with data in (at least) two different representations: 
            1. In memory, data is kept in objects, structs, lists, arrays, hash tables, trees etc.
            2. When you want to write data to a file or send it over the network, you have to encode it as some kind of self-contained sequence of bytes(eg. JSON)
        - The translation from the in-memory representation to a byte sequence is called encoding **(also known as serialization or marshalling)**, and the reverse is called decoding **(parsing, deserialization, unmarshalling)**
        - For these reasons it’s generally a bad idea to use your language’s built-in encoding(Java has java.io.Serializable) for anything other than very transient purposes:-
            1. The encoding is often tied to a particular programming language, and reading the data in another language is very difficult. If you store or transmit data in such an encoding, you are committing yourself to your current programming language for potentially a very long time.
            2. Versioning data and efficiency are often an afterthought in these libraries.
            3. In order to restore data in the same object types, the decoding process needs to be able to instantiate arbitrary classes. This is frequently a source of security problems.     
        - Moving to standardized encodings that can be written and read by many programming languages, JSON and XML are the obvious contenders.    
        - Apache Thrift and Protocol Buffers (protobuf) are binary encoding libraries that are based on the same principle.
        - Thrift has two different binary encoding formats, called BinaryProtocol and CompactProtocol, respectively. 
        - **Field tags and schema evolution**
            - Field tags are critical to the meaning of the encoded data. You can change the name of a field in the schema, since the encoded data never refers to field names, but you cannot change a field’s tag, since that would make all existing encoded data invalid.
            - You can add new fields to the schema, provided that you give each field a new tag number. If old code (which doesn’t know about the new tag numbers you added) tries to read data written by new code, including a new field with a tag number it doesn’t recognize, it can simply ignore that field. The datatype annotation allows the parser to determine how many bytes it needs to skip. This maintains forward compatibility: old code can read records that were written by new code.
            - What about backward compatibility? As long as each field has a unique tag number, new code can always read old data, because the tag numbers still have the same meaning. The only detail is that if you add a new field, you cannot make it required. If you were to add a field and make it required, that check would fail if new code read data written by old code, because the old code will not have written the new field that you added. Therefore, to maintain backward compatibility, every field you add after the initial deployment of the schema must be optional or have a default value.
            - Removing a field is just like adding a field, with backward and forward compatibility concerns reversed. That means you can only remove a field that is optional (a required field can never be removed), and you can never use the same tag number again (because you may still have data written somewhere that includes the old tag number, and that field must be ignored by new code).
        - **Avro**    
            - Avro also uses a schema to specify the structure of the data being encoded. It has two schema languages: one (Avro IDL) intended for human editing, and one (based on JSON) that is more easily machine-readable.
            - To parse the binary data, you go through the fields in the order that they appear in the schema and use the schema to tell you the datatype of each field. This means that the binary data can only be decoded correctly if the code reading the data is using the exact same schema as the code that wrote the data.
            - **The writer’s schema and the reader’s schema**
                - With Avro, when an application wants to encode some data (to write it to a file or database, to send it over the network, etc.), it encodes the data using whatever version of the schema it knows about—for example, that schema may be compiled into the application. This is known as the **writer’s schema**.
                - When an application wants to decode some data (read it from a file or database, receive it from the network, etc.), it is expecting the data to be in some schema, which is known as the **reader’s schema**. That is the schema the application code is relying on —code may have been generated from that schema during the application’s build process.
                - The key idea with Avro is that the writer’s schema and the reader’s schema don’t have to be the same—they only need to be compatible. When data is decoded (read), the Avro library resolves the differences by looking at the writer’s schema and the reader’s schema side by side and translating the data from the writer’s schema into the reader’s schema.
                - It’s no problem if the writer’s schema and the reader’s schema have their fields in a different order, because the schema resolution matches up the fields by field name. If the code reading the data encounters a field that appears in the writer’s schema but not in the reader’s schema, it is ignored. If the code reading the data expects some field, but the writer’s schema does not contain a field of that name, it is filled in with a default value declared in the reader’s schema.
            - **Schema evolution rules**
                - If you were to add a field that has no default value, new readers wouldn’t be able to read data written by old writers, so you would break backward compatibility. If you were to remove a field that has no default value, old readers wouldn’t be able to read data written by new writers, so you would break forward compatibility.
                - **To maintain compatibility, you may only add or remove a field that has a default value.**
            - **Dynamically generated schemas**        
                - Avro is friendlier to dynamically generated schemas. You can fairly easily generate an Avro schema (in JSON) from the relational schema and encode the database contents using that schema, dumping it all to an Avro object container file. You generate a record schema for each database table, and each column becomes a field in that record. The column name in the database maps to the field name in Avro.
                - Avro provides optional code generation for statically typed programming languages, but it can be used just as well without any code generation. If you have an object container file (which embeds the writer’s schema), you can simply open it using the Avro library and look at the data in the same way as you could look at a JSON file. The file is self-describing since it includes all the necessary metadata.
        - **Modes of Dataflow**    
            1. **Dataflow Through Databases**
                - In a database, the process that writes to the database encodes the data, and the process that reads from the database decodes it. 
                - There may just be a single process accessing the database, in which case the reader is simply a later version of the same process—in that case you can think of **storing something in the database as sending a message to your future self.**
                - If you add a field to a record schema, and the newer code writes a value for that new field to the database. Subsequently, an older version of the code (which doesn’t yet know about the new field) reads the record, updates it, and writes it back. In this situation, the desirable behavior is usually for the old code to keep the new field intact, even though it couldn’t be interpreted.  
                - **Different values written at different times**
                    - When you deploy a new version of your application (of a server-side application, at least), you may entirely replace the old version with the new version within a few minutes. The same is not true of database contents: the five-year-old data will still be there, in the original encoding, unless you have explicitly rewritten it since then. This observation is sometimes summed up as **data outlives code.**
                    - Schema evolution allows the entire database to appear as if it was encoded with a single schema, even though the underlying storage may contain records encoded with various historical versions of the schema.
            2. **Dataflow Through Services: REST and RPC**        
                - The most common arrangement is to have two roles: clients and servers. **The servers expose an API over the network, and the clients can connect to the servers to make requests to that API**. The API exposed by the server is known as a service.
                - a server can itself be a client to another service (for example, a typical web app server acts as client to a database). This approach is often used to decompose a large application into smaller services by area of functionality, such that one service makes a request to another when it requires some functionality or data from that other service. This way of building applications has traditionally been called a **service oriented architecture (SOA)**, more recently refined and rebranded as **microservices architecture**.
                - **Web services**
                    - When HTTP is used as the underlying protocol for talking to the service, it is called a web service. 
                    - There are two popular approaches to web services: REST and SOAP.
                    - REST is not a protocol, but rather a design philosophy that builds upon the principles of HTTP. It emphasizes simple data formats, using URLs for identifying resources and using HTTP features for cache control, authentication, and content type negotiation. An API designed according to the principles of REST is called RESTful. A definition format such as **OpenAPI, also known as Swagger**, can be used to describe RESTful APIs and produce documentation.
                    - SOAP is an XML-based protocol for making network API requests.vii Although it is most commonly used over HTTP, it aims to be independent from HTTP and avoids using most HTTP features. Instead, it comes with a sprawling and complex multitude of related standards (the web service framework, known as WS-*) that add various features. The API of a SOAP web service is described using an XML-based language called the Web Services Description Language, or WSDL. WSDL enables code generation so that a client can access a remote service using local classes and method calls (which are encoded to XML messages and decoded again by the framework). This is useful in statically typed programming languages, but less so in dynamically typed ones.
                    - For evolvability, it is important that RPC clients and servers can be changed and deployed independently. It is reasonable to assume that all the servers will be updated first, and all the clients second. Thus, you only need backward compatibility on requests, and forward compatibility on responses.
                    - Service compatibility is made harder by the fact that RPC is often used for communication across organizational boundaries, so the provider of a service often has no control over its clients and cannot force them to upgrade. Thus, compatibility needs to be maintained for a long time, perhaps indefinitely. If a compatibility-breaking change is required, the service provider often ends up maintaining multiple versions of the service API side by side. 
                    - For RESTful APIs, common approaches are to use a version number in the URL or in the HTTP Accept header. For services that use API keys to identify a particular client, another option is to store a client’s requested API version on the server and to allow this version selection to be updated through a separate administrative interface.
            3. **Message-Passing Dataflow**        
                - We will briefly look at asynchronous message-passing systems, which are somewhere between RPC and databases. They are similar to RPC in that a client’s request (usually called a message) is delivered to another process with low latency. They are similar to databases in that the message is not sent via a direct network connection, but goes via an intermediary called a message broker (or message queue), which stores the message temporarily.
                - The detailed delivery semantics vary by implementation and configuration, but in general, message brokers are used as follows: one process sends a message to a named queue or topic, and the broker ensures that the message is delivered to one or more consumers of or subscribers to that queue or topic. There can be many producers and many consumers on the same topic.
                - A topic provides only one-way dataflow. However, a consumer may itself publish messages to another topic (so you can chain them together, or to a reply queue that is consumed by the sender of the original message (allowing a request/response dataflow, similar to RPC).
                - **Distributed actor frameworks**
                    - The actor model is a programming model for concurrency in a single process. Rather than dealing directly with threads (and the associated problems of race conditions, locking, and deadlock), logic is encapsulated in actors. Each actor typically represents one client or entity, it may have some local state (which is not shared with any other actor), and it communicates with other actors by sending and receiving asynchronous messages. Message delivery is not guaranteed: in certain error scenarios, messages will be lost. Since each actor processes only one message at a time, it doesn’t need to worry about threads, and each actor can be scheduled independently by the framework.
               
##Part II. Distributed Data

- **Introduction**    
    - There are various reasons why you might want to distribute a database across multiple machines:
        - **Scalability:**  If your data volume, read load, or write load grows bigger than a single machine can handle, you can potentially spread the load across multiple machines.   
        - **Fault tolerance/high availability:** If your application needs to continue working even if one machine (or several machines, or the network, or an entire datacenter) goes down, you can use multiple machines to give you redundancy. When one fails, another one can take over.  
        - **Latency:** If you have users around the world, you might want to have servers at various locations worldwide so that each user can be served from a datacenter that is geographically close to them. That avoids the users having to wait for network packets to travel halfway around the world.
    - **Shared-nothing architectures:** (sometimes called horizontal scaling or scaling out) have gained a lot of popularity. In this approach, each machine or virtual machine running the database software is called a node. Each node uses its CPUs, RAM, and disks independently. Any coordination between nodes is done at the software level, using a conventional network.
    - There are two common ways data is distributed across multiple nodes:
        - **Replication:** Keeping a copy of the same data on several different nodes, potentially in different locations. Replication provides redundancy: if some nodes are unavailable, the data can still be served from the remaining nodes. Replication can also help improve performance.
        - **Partitioning:** Splitting a big database into smaller subsets called partitions so that different partitions can be assigned to different nodes (also known as sharding). 
    
- **Chapter-5: Replication**    
    - If the data that you’re replicating does not change over time, then replication is easy: you just need to copy the data to every node once, and you’re done. All of the difficulty in replication lies in handling changes to replicated data.
    - **Leaders and Followers**
        - Every write to the database needs to be processed by every replica; otherwise, the replicas would no longer contain the same data. The most common solution for this is called leader-based replication (also known as active/passive or master–slave replication).
            1. One of the replicas is designated the leader (also known as master or primary). When clients want to write to the database, they must send their requests to the leader, which first writes the new data to its local storage.
            2. The other replicas are known as followers (read replicas, slaves, secondaries, or hot standbys). Whenever the leader writes new data to its local storage, it also sends the data change to all of its followers as part of a replication log or change stream. Each follower takes the log from the leader and updates its local copy of the database accordingly, by applying all writes in the same order as they were processed on the leader.
            3. When a client wants to read from the database, it can query either the leader or any of the followers. However, writes are only accepted on the leader (the followers are read-only from the client’s point of view).    
    - **Synchronous Versus Asynchronous Replication**        
        - It is impractical for all followers to be synchronous: any one node outage would cause the whole system to grind to a halt. In practice, if you enable synchronous replication on a database, it usually means that one of the followers is synchronous, and the others are asynchronous. If the synchronous follower becomes unavailable or slow, one of the asynchronous followers is made synchronous. This guarantees that you have an up-to-date copy of the data on at least two nodes: the leader and one synchronous follower. This configuration is sometimes also called semi-synchronous
        - Often, leader-based replication is configured to be completely asynchronous. In this case, if the leader fails and is not recoverable, any writes that have not yet been replicated to followers are lost. This means that a write is not guaranteed to be durable, even if it has been confirmed to the client. However, a fully asynchronous configuration has the advantage that the leader can continue processing writes, even if all of its followers have fallen behind.
    - **Setting Up New Followers**    
        1. Take a consistent snapshot of the leader’s database at some point in time—if possible, without taking a lock on the entire database.
        2. Copy the snapshot to the new follower node.
        3. The follower connects to the leader and requests all the data changes that have happened since the snapshot was taken. This requires that the snapshot is associated with an exact position in the leader’s replication log.
        4. When the follower has processed the backlog of data changes since the snapshot, we say it has caught up. It can now continue to process data changes from the leader as they happen.
    - **Handling Node Outages**    
        - **Follower failure: Catch-up recovery**
            - If a follower crashes and is restarted, or if the network between the leader and the follower is temporarily interrupted, the follower can recover quite easily: from its log, it knows the last transaction that was processed before the fault occurred. Thus, the follower can connect to the leader and request all the data changes that occurred during the time when the follower was disconnected.
        - **Leader failure: Failover**    
            - Handling a failure of the leader is trickier: one of the followers needs to be promoted to be the new leader, clients need to be reconfigured to send their writes to the new leader, and the other followers need to start consuming data changes from the new leader. This process is called failover.
            - An automatic failover process usually consists of the following steps: **Determining that the leader has failed -> Choosing a new leader -> Reconfiguring the system to use the new leader**
    - **Implementation of Replication Logs**        
        - **Statement-based replication**
            - The leader logs every write request (statement) that it executes and sends that statement log to its followers, and each follower parses and executes that SQL statement as if it had been received from a client.
        - **Write-ahead log (WAL) shipping**
            - The log is an append-only sequence of bytes containing all writes to the database. We can use the exact same log to build a replica on another node: besides writing the log to disk, the leader also sends it across the network to its followers. This method of replication is used in PostgreSQL and Oracle.
            - If the replication protocol does not allow this version mismatch, as is often the case with WAL shipping, such upgrades require downtime.                  
        - **Logical (row-based) log replication**    
            - An alternative is to use different log formats for replication and for the storage engine, which allows the replication log to be decoupled from the storage engine internals. This kind of replication log is called a logical log, to distinguish it from the storage engine’s (physical) data representation.
            - A logical log for a relational database is usually a sequence of records describing writes to database tables at the granularity of a row.
            - A logical log format is also easier for external applications to parse. This aspect is useful if you want to send the contents of a database to an external system, such as a data warehouse for offline analysis, or for building custom indexes and caches. This technique is called **change data capture**.
        - **Trigger-based replication**    
            - Some tools, such as Oracle GoldenGate, can make data changes available to an application by reading the database log. An alternative is to use features that are available in many relational databases: triggers and stored procedures.
    - **Reading Your Own Writes**
        - With asynchronous replication, there is a problem, if the user views the data shortly after making a write, the new data may not yet have reached the replica. To the user, it looks as though the data they submitted was lost, so they will be understandably unhappy.
        - In this situation, we need read-after-write consistency, also known as read-your-writes consistency. This is a guarantee that if the user reloads the page, they will always see any updates they submitted themselves. It makes no promises about other users: other users’ updates may not be visible until some later time. However, it reassures the user that their own input has been saved correctly.
        - Another complication arises when the same user is accessing your service from multiple devices, for example a desktop web browser and a mobile app. In this case you may want to provide cross-device read-after-write consistency: if the user enters some information on one device and then views it on another device, they should see the information they just entered.
    - **Monotonic Reads**    
        - An anomaly that can occur when reading from asynchronous followers is that it’s possible for a user to see things **moving backward in time.** 
        - **Monotonic reads** is a guarantee that this kind of anomaly does not happen. It’s a lesser guarantee than strong consistency, but a stronger guarantee than eventual consistency. When you read data, you may see an old value; monotonic reads only means that if one user makes several reads in sequence, they will not see time go backward— i.e., they will not read older data after having previously read newer data. One way of achieving monotonic reads is to make sure that each user always makes their reads from the same replica (different users can read from different replicas).
    - **Consistent Prefix Reads**
        - If some partitions are replicated slower than others, an observer may see the answer before they see the question.    
        - Preventing this kind of anomaly requires another type of guarantee: **consistent prefix reads**. This guarantee says that if a sequence of writes happens in a certain order, then anyone reading those writes will see them appear in the same order.
        - In distributed databases, different partitions operate independently, so there is no global ordering of writes: when a user reads from the database, they may see some parts of the database in an older state and some in a newer state. One solution is to make sure that any writes that are causally related to each other are written to the same partition—but in some applications that cannot be done efficiently.
    - **Multi-Leader Replication**    
        - A natural extension of the leader-based replication model is to allow more than one node to accept writes. Replication still happens in the same way: each node that processes a write must forward that data change to all the other nodes. We call this a multi-leader configuration (also known as master–master or active/active replication). In this setup, each leader simultaneously acts as a follower to the other leaders.
        - Uses cases for Mulit_Leader Replication
            - Multi-datacenter operation
            - Clients with offline operation
            - Collaborative editing
        - **Handling Write Conflicts**    
            - The biggest problem with multi-leader replication is that write conflicts can occur, which means that conflict resolution is required.
            - **Synchronous versus asynchronous conflict detection:** In principle, you could make the conflict detection synchronous—i.e., wait for the write to be replicated to all replicas before telling the user that the write was successful. However, by doing so, you would lose the main advantage of multi-leader replication: allowing each replica to accept writes independently. If you want synchronous conflict detection, you might as well just use single-leader replication.
            - **Conflict avoidance:** The simplest strategy for dealing with conflicts is to avoid them: if the application can ensure that all writes for a particular record go through the same leader, then conflicts cannot occur. Since many implementations of multi-leader replication handle conflicts quite poorly, avoiding conflicts is a frequently recommended approach.
            - **Converging toward a consistent state:** 
            - **Custom conflict resolution logic:** That code may be executed on write or on read:
                 - On write: As soon as the database system detects a conflict in the log of replicated changes, it calls the conflict handler.
                 - On read: When a conflict is detected, all the conflicting writes are stored. The next time the data is read, these multiple versions of the data are returned to the application. The application may prompt the user or automatically resolve the conflict, and write the result back to the database. CouchDB works this way, for example.
    - **Multi-Leader Replication Topologies**             
        - A replication topology describes the communication paths along which writes are propagated from one node to another.
        - The most general topology is all-to-all, in which every leader sends its writes to every other leader. However, more restricted topologies are also used: for example, MySQL by default supports only a circular topology, in which each node receives writes from one node and forwards those writes (plus any writes of its own) to one other node. Another popular topology has the shape of a star: one designated root node forwards writes to all of the other nodes. The star topology can be generalized to a tree.
        - For ex: client A inserts a row into a table on leader 1, and client B updates that row on leader 3. However, leader 2 may receive the writes in a different order: it may first receive the update (which, from its point of view, is an update to a row that does not exist in the database) and only later receive the corresponding insert (which should have preceded the update). This is a problem of causality, the update depends on the prior insert, so we need to make sure that all nodes process the insert first, and then the update. Simply attaching a timestamp to every write is not sufficient, because clocks cannot be trusted to be sufficiently in sync to correctly order these events at leader 2. To order these events correctly, a technique called version vectors can be used.
    - **Leaderless Replication**    
        - Some DBs (Dynamo system in Amazon, not to be confused with DynamoDB) allow any replica to directly accept writes from clients.
        - In some leaderless implementations, the client directly sends its writes to several replicas, while in others, a coordinator node does this on behalf of the client. However, unlike a leader database, that coordinator does not enforce a particular ordering of writes.
    - **Writing to the Database When a Node Is Down**    
        - Imagine you have a database with three replicas, and one of the replicas is currently unavailable—perhaps it is being rebooted to install a system update. 
            - In a *leader-based configuration*, if you want to continue processing writes, you may need to perform a failover.
            - In a *leaderless configuration*, failover does not exist. The client (user 1234) sends the write to all three replicas in parallel, and the two available replicas accept the write but the unavailable replica misses it. Let’s say that it’s sufficient for two out of three replicas to acknowledge the write: after user 1234 has received two ok responses, we consider the write to be successful. The client simply ignores the fact that one of the replicas missed the write.
        - **Read repair and anti-entropy**
            - **Read repair:** When a client makes a read from several nodes in parallel, it can detect any stale responses. For example, in Figure 5-10, user 2345 gets a version 6 value from replica 3 and a version 7 value from replicas 1 and 2. The client sees that replica 3 has a stale value and writes the newer value back to that replica. This approach works well for values that are frequently read.
            - **Anti-entropy process:** In addition, some datastores have a background process that constantly looks for differences in the data between replicas and copies any missing data from one replica to another. Unlike the replication log in leader-based replication, this anti-entropy process does not copy writes in any particular order, and there may be a significant delay before data is copied.
    - **Quorums for reading and writing**        
        - If there are n replicas, every write must be confirmed by w nodes to be considered successful, and we must query at least r nodes for each read. (In our example, n = 3, w = 2, r = 2.) As long as w + r > n, we expect to get an up-to-date value when reading, because at least one of the r nodes we’re reading from must be up to date. Reads and writes that obey these r and w values are called quorum reads and writes. You can think of r and w as the minimum number of votes required for the read or write to be valid.
        - **Limitations of Quorum Consistency**
            - Even with w + r > n, there are likely to be edge cases where stale values are returned. These depend on the implementation, but possible scenarios include:
                - Sloppy quorum
                - If two writes occur concurrently
                - If a write happens concurrently with a read
                - If a write succeeded on some replicas but failed on others, and overall succeeded on fewer than w replicas
                - If a node carrying a new value fails
            - Dynamo-style databases are generally optimized for use cases that can tolerate eventual consistency. The parameters w and r allow you to adjust the probability of stale values being read, but it’s wise to not take them as absolute guarantees.
    - **Sloppy Quorums and Hinted Handoff**    
        - **Sloppy quorum:** writes and reads still require w and r successful responses, but those may include nodes that are not among the designated n “home” nodes for a value.
        - Once the network interruption is fixed, any writes that one node temporarily accepted on behalf of another node are sent to the appropriate “home” nodes. This is called hinted handoff.
        - Sloppy quorums are particularly useful for increasing write availability: as long as any w nodes are available, the database can accept writes. However, this means that even when w + r > n, you cannot be sure to read the latest value for a key, because the latest value may have been temporarily written to some nodes outside of n.
    - **Detecting Concurrent Writes**    
        - **Last write wins (discarding concurrent writes)**
            - One approach for achieving eventual convergence is to declare that each replica need only store the most “recent” value and allow “older” values to be overwritten and discarded.
            - Even though the writes don’t have a natural ordering, we can force an arbitrary order on them. For example, we can attach a timestamp to each write, pick the biggest timestamp as the most “recent,” and discard any writes with an earlier timestamp. This conflict resolution algorithm, called **last write wins (LWW)**, is the only supported conflict resolution method in Cassandra.
            - The only safe way of using a database with LWW is to ensure that a key is only written once and thereafter treated as immutable, thus avoiding any concurrent updates to the same key. For example, a recommended way of using Cassandra is to use a UUID as the key, thus giving each write operation a unique key
        - **The “happens-before” relationship and concurrency**    
            - An operation A happens before another operation B if B knows about A, or depends on A, or builds upon A in some way. Whether one operation happens before another operation is the key to defining what concurrency means. In fact, we can simply say that two operations are concurrent if neither happens before the other (i.e., neither knows about the other).
            - **Capturing the happens-before relationship**
            - Single replica uses a single version number to capture dependencies between operations, but that is not sufficient when there are multiple replicas accepting writes concurrently. Instead, we need to use a version number per replica as well as per key. Each replica increments its own version number when processing a write, and also keeps track of the version numbers it has seen from each of the other replicas. This information indicates which values to overwrite and which values to keep as siblings. The collection of version numbers from all the replicas is called a **version vector**. A few variants of this idea are in use, but the most interesting is probably the dotted **version vector**, which is used in Riak 2.0.

- **Chapter-6: Partitioning**            
    - For very large datasets, or very high query throughput, that is not sufficient: we need to break the data up into partitions, also known as sharding. Normally, partitions are defined in such a way that each piece of data (each record, row, or document) belongs to exactly one partition.
    - **Partitioning and Replication**
        - A node may store more than one partition. If a leader–follower replication model is used, each partition’s leader is assigned to one node, and its followers are assigned to other nodes. Each node may be the leader for some partitions and a follower for other partitions.
    - **Partitioning of Key-Value Data**    
        - Our goal with partitioning is to spread the data and the query load evenly across nodes. If every node takes a fair share, then—in theory—10 nodes should be able to handle 10 times as much data and 10 times the read and write throughput of a single node (ignoring replication for now).
        - If the partitioning is unfair, so that some partitions have more data or queries than others, we call it skewed. The presence of skew makes partitioning much less effective. In an extreme case, all the load could end up on one partition, so 9 out of 10 nodes are idle and your bottleneck is the single busy node. A partition with disproportionately high load is called a hot spot.
        - **Partitioning by Key Range:**
            - One way of partitioning is to assign a continuous range of keys (from some minimum to some maximum) to each partition. If you know the boundaries between the ranges, you can easily determine which partition contains a given key. If you also know which partition is assigned to which node, then you can make your request directly to the appropriate node.
        - **Partitioning by Hash of Key:** 
            - Because of this risk of skew and hot spots, many distributed datastores use a hash function to determine the partition for a given key. A good hash function takes skewed data and makes it uniformly distributed. Say you have a 32-bit hash function that takes a string. Whenever you give it a new string, it returns a seemingly random number between 0 and 232 − 1. Even if the input strings are very similar, their hashes are evenly distributed across that range of numbers.
            - This technique is good at distributing keys fairly among the partitions. The partition boundaries can be evenly spaced, or they can be chosen pseudorandomly (in which case the technique is sometimes known as consistent hashing).
            - Unfortunately however, by using the hash of the key for partitioning we lose a nice property of key-range partitioning: the ability to do efficient range queries. Keys that were once adjacent are now scattered across all the partitions, so their sort order is lost.
        - **Skewed Workloads and Relieving Hot Spots:**
            - Hashing a key to determine its partition can help reduce hot spots. However, it can’t avoid them entirely: in the extreme case where all reads and writes are for the same key, you still end up with all requests being routed to the same partition.    
    - **Partitioning and Secondary Indexes**
        - There are two main approaches to partitioning a database with secondary indexes:
            - **Partitioning Secondary Indexes by Document:**
                - In this indexing approach, each partition is completely separate: each partition maintains its own secondary indexes, covering only the documents in that partition. It doesn’t care what data is stored in other partitions. Whenever you need to write to the database—to add, remove, or update a document—you only need to deal with the partition that contains the document ID that you are writing. For that reason, a document-partitioned index is also known as a local index (as opposed to a global index).
                - However, reading from a document-partitioned index requires care: unless you have done something special with the document IDs, there is no reason why all the cars with a particular color or a particular make would be in the same partition. For ex., red cars appear in both partition 0 and partition 1. Thus, if you want to search for red cars, you need to send the query to all partitions, and combine all the results you get back. This approach to querying a partitioned database is sometimes known as scatter/ gather, and it can make read queries on secondary indexes quite expensive. Even if you query the partitions in parallel, scatter/gather is prone to tail latency amplification.
            - **Partitioning Secondary Indexes by Term:**    
                - Rather than each partition having its own secondary index (a local index), we can construct a global index that covers data in all partitions. However, we can’t just store that index on one node, since it would likely become a bottleneck and defeat the purpose of partitioning. A global index must also be partitioned, but it can be partitioned differently from the primary key index.
                - We call this kind of index term-partitioned, because the term we’re looking for determines the partition of the index. Here, a term would be color:red, for example. The name term comes from full-text indexes (a particular kind of secondary index), where the terms are all the words that occur in a document.
    - **Rebalancing Partitions**
        - The process of moving load from one node in the cluster to another is called **rebalancing**. Some strategies for rebalancing:
        - **How not to do it: hash mod N** Because the problem with the mod N approach is that if the number of nodes N changes, most of the keys will need to be moved from one node to another. Such frequent moves make rebalancing excessively expensive.
        - **Fixed number of partitions** 
            - Create many more partitions than there are nodes, and assign several partitions to each node. For example, a database running on a cluster of 10 nodes may be split into 1,000 partitions from the outset so that approximately 100 partitions are assigned to each node. Now, if a node is added to the cluster, the new node can steal a few partitions from every existing node until partitions are fairly distributed once again.
            - Only entire partitions are moved between nodes. The number of partitions does not change, nor does the assignment of keys to partitions. The only thing that changes is the assignment of partitions to nodes.
        - **Dynamic partitioning**  
            - When a partition grows to exceed a configured size, it is split into two partitions so that approximately half of the data ends up on each side of the split. Conversely, if lots of data is deleted and a partition shrinks below some threshold, it can be merged with an adjacent partition.
            - Each partition is assigned to one node, and each node can handle multiple partitions, like in the case of a fixed number of partitions. After a large partition has been split, one of its two halves can be transferred to another node in order to balance the load.
            - However, a caveat is that an empty database starts off with a single partition, since there is no a priori information about where to draw the partition boundaries. While the dataset is small—until it hits the point at which the first partition is split—all writes have to be processed by a single node while the other nodes sit idle. To mitigate this issue, HBase and MongoDB allow an initial set of partitions to be configured on an empty database (this is called pre-splitting). In the case of key-range partitioning, pre-splitting requires that you already know what the key distribution is going to look like.
        - **Partitioning proportionally to nodes**    
            - With dynamic partitioning, the number of partitions is proportional to the size of the dataset, since the splitting and merging processes keep the size of each partition between some fixed minimum and maximum. On the other hand, with a fixed number of partitions, the size of each partition is proportional to the size of the dataset. In both of these cases, the number of partitions is independent of the number of nodes. A third option, used by Cassandra and Ketama, **is to make the number of partitions proportional to the number of nodes—in other words, to have a fixed number of partitions per node.**
    - **Request Routing**        
        - As partitions are rebalanced, the assignment of partitions to nodes changes. For ex. If I want to read or write the key “foo”, which IP address and port number do I need to connect to? This is an instance of a more general problem called **service discovery**, which isn’t limited to just databases.

- **Chapter-7:Transactions**
    - A transaction is a way for an application to group several reads and writes together into a logical unit. Conceptually, all the reads and writes in a transaction are executed as one operation: either the entire transaction succeeds (commit) or it fails (abort, rollback). If it fails, the application can safely retry.
    - By using transactions, the application is free to ignore certain potential error scenarios and concurrency issues, because the database takes care of them instead (we call these safety guarantees).
    - **The Meaning of ACID**
        - The safety guarantees provided by transactions are often described by the wellknown acronym ACID, which stands for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability.
        - Systems that do not meet the ACID criteria are sometimes called **BASE**, which stands for Basically Available, Soft state, and Eventual consistency.
        - **Atomicity**          
            - If the writes are grouped together into an atomic transaction, and the transaction cannot be completed (committed) due to a fault, then the transaction is aborted and the database must discard or undo any writes it has made so far in that transaction.
        - **Consistency**    
            - The idea of ACID consistency is that you have certain statements about your data (invariants) that must always be true—for example, in an accounting system, credits and debits across all accounts must always be balanced. If a transaction starts with a database that is valid according to these invariants, and any writes during the transaction preserve the validity, then you can be sure that the invariants are always satisfied.     
        - **Isolation**    
            - Isolation in the sense of ACID means that concurrently executing transactions are isolated from each other: they cannot step on each other’s toes. The classic database textbooks formalize isolation as serializability, which means that each transaction can pretend that it is the only transaction running on the entire database. The database ensures that when the transactions have committed, the result is the same as if they had run serially (one after another), even though in reality they may have run concurrently.
        - **Durability**    
            - Durability is the promise that once a transaction has committed successfully, any data it has written will not be forgotten, even if there is a hardware fault or the database crashes.       
    - **Weak Isolation Levels**          
        - Concurrency issues (race conditions) only come into play when one transaction reads data that is concurrently modified by another transaction, or when two transactions try to simultaneously modify the same data.
        - In practice, isolation is unfortunately not that simple. Serializable isolation has a performance cost, and many databases don’t want to pay that price. It’s therefore common for systems to use weaker levels of isolation, which protect against some concurrency issues, but not all.
        - Few weak isolation levels:
            1. **Read committed** makes two guarantees:
                - **No dirty reads:** 
                    - When reading from the database, you will only see data that has been committed. 
                    - Imagine a transaction has written some data to the database, but the transaction has not yet committed or aborted. Can another transaction see that uncommitted data? If yes, that is called a **dirty read**. 
                - **No dirty writes:** 
                    - What happens if the earlier write is part of a transaction that has not yet committed, so the later write overwrites an uncommitted value? This is called a **dirty write**. When writing to the database, you will only overwrite data that has been committed.
                    - Most commonly, databases prevent dirty writes by using row-level locks: when a transaction wants to modify a particular object (row or document), it must first acquire a lock on that object. It must then hold that lock until the transaction is committed or aborted.
            2. **Snapshot Isolation and Repeatable Read**
                - Say Alice has $1,000 of savings at a bank, split across two accounts with $500 each. Now a transaction transfers $100 from one of her accounts to the other. If she is unlucky enough to look at her list of account balances in the same moment as that transaction is being processed, she may see one account balance at a time before the incoming payment has arrived (with a balance of $500), and the other account after the outgoing transfer has been made (the new balance being $400). To Alice it now appears as though she only has a total of $900 in her accounts—it seems that $100 has vanished into thin air. This anomaly is called a nonrepeatable read or read skew: if Alice were to read the balance of account 1 again at the end of the transaction, she would see a different value ($600) than she saw in her previous query. Read skew is considered acceptable under read committed isolation: the account balances that Alice saw were indeed committed at the time when she read them.
                - However some situations like **Backups** and **Analytic queries and integrity checks** cannot tolerate such temporary inconsistency. **Snapshot isolation** is the most common solution to this problem. The idea is that each transaction reads from a consistent snapshot of the database—that is, the transaction sees all the data that was committed in the database at the start of the transaction.
                - From a performance point of view, **a key principle of snapshot isolation is readers never block writers, and writers never block readers**. This allows a database to handle long-running read queries on a consistent snapshot at the same time as processing writes normally, without any lock contention between the two.
                - To implement snapshot isolation, databases use a generalization of the mechanism we saw for preventing dirty reads. The database must potentially keep several different committed versions of an object, because various in-progress transactions may need to see the state of the database at different points in time. Because it maintains several versions of an object side by side, this technique is known as multiversion concurrency control (MVCC).
    - **Preventing Lost Updates**            
        - The lost update problem can occur if an application reads some value from the database, modifies it, and writes back the modified value (a read-modify-write cycle). If two transactions do this concurrently, one of the modifications can be lost, because the second write does not include the first modification.
        - A few solutions are:
            1. **Atomic write operations:** 
                - Atomic operations are usually implemented by taking an exclusive lock on the object when it is read so that no other transaction can read it until the update has been applied. This technique is sometimes known as cursor stability. Another option is to simply force all atomic operations to be executed on a single thread.     
            2. **Explicit locking:**   
                - Another option for preventing lost updates, if the database’s built-in atomic operations don’t provide the necessary functionality, is for the application to explicitly lock objects that are going to be updated. Then the application can perform a readmodify- write cycle, and if any other transaction tries to concurrently read the same object, it is forced to wait until the first read-modify-write cycle has completed.      
            3. **Automatically detecting lost updates:**
                - Atomic operations and locks are ways of preventing lost updates by forcing the readmodify- write cycles to happen sequentially. An alternative is to allow them to execute in parallel and, if the transaction manager detects a lost update, abort the transaction and force it to retry its read-modify-write cycle.    
            4. **Compare-and-set:**
                - In databases that don’t provide transactions, you sometimes find an atomic compareand- set operation. The purpose of this operation is to avoid lost updates by allowing an update to happen only if the value has not changed since you last read it. If the current value does not match what you previously read, the update has no effect, and the read-modify-write cycle must be retried.        
            5. **Conflict resolution and replication:**         
                - A common approach in such replicated databases is to allow concurrent writes to create several conflicting versions of a value (also known as siblings), and to use application code or special data structures to resolve and merge these versions after the fact.
        
    - **Write Skew and Phantoms**
        - You can think of write skew as a generalization of the lost update problem. Write skew can occur if two transactions read the same objects, and then update some of those objects (different transactions may update different objects). In the special case where different transactions update the same object, you get a dirty write or lost update anomaly (depending on the timing). 
        - In the case of the doctor on call example, the row being modified in step 3 was one of the rows returned in step 1, so we could make the transaction safe and avoid write skew by locking the rows in step 1 (SELECT FOR UPDATE). However, the other four examples are different: they check for the absence of rows matching some search condition, and the write adds a row matching the same condition. If the query in step 1 doesn’t return any rows, SELECT FOR UPDATE can’t attach locks to anything. This effect, where a write in one transaction changes the result of a search query in another transaction, is called a **Phantom**.        
        - If the problem of phantoms is that there is no object to which we can attach the locks, perhaps we can artificially introduce a lock object into the database? This approach is called **materializing conflicts**, because it takes a phantom and turns it into a lock conflict on a concrete set of rows that exist in the database. Unfortunately, it can be hard and error-prone to figure out how to materialize conflicts, and it’s ugly to let a concurrency control mechanism leak into the application data model. For those reasons, materializing conflicts should be considered a last resort if no alternative is possible. A serializable isolation level is much preferable in most cases.     
        
    - **Serializability:**                         
        - This approach is called materializing conflicts, because it takes a phantom and turns it into a lock conflict on a concrete set of rows that exist in the database. Unfortunately, it can be hard and error-prone to figure out how to materialize conflicts, and it’s ugly to let a concurrency control mechanism leak into the application data model. For those reasons, materializing conflicts should be considered a last resort if no alternative is possible. A serializable isolation level is much preferable in most cases.        
        - Most databases that provide serializability today use one of three techniques:
            1. **Actual Serial Execution:**
            2. **Two-Phase Locking (2PL):**
                - Two-phase locking is a so-called pessimistic concurrency control mechanism: it is based on the principle that if anything might possibly go wrong (as indicated by a lock held by another transaction), it’s better to wait until the situation is safe again before doing anything
                - Several transactions are allowed to concurrently read the same object as long as nobody is writing to it. But as soon as anyone wants to write (modify or delete) an object, exclusive access is required:
                  • If transaction A has read an object and transaction B wants to write to that object, B must wait until A commits or aborts before it can continue. (This ensures that B can’t change the object unexpectedly behind A’s back.)
                  • If transaction A has written an object and transaction B wants to read that object, B must wait until A commits or aborts before it can continue. (Reading an old version of the object, like in Figure 7-1, is not acceptable under 2PL.)
                - In 2PL, writers don’t just block other writers; they also block readers and vice versa. Snapshot isolation has the mantra readers never block writers, and writers never block readers, which captures this key difference between snapshot isolation and two-phase locking. 
                - On the other hand, because 2PL provides serializability, it protects against all the race conditions discussed earlier, including lost updates and write skew.
                - A **Predicate lock** works similarly to the shared/exclusive lock described earlier, but rather than belonging to a particular object (e.g., one row in a table), it belongs to all objects that match some search condition      
            3. **Serializable Snapshot Isolation (SSI):**
                - Serializable snapshot isolation is an optimistic concurrency control technique. Optimistic in this context means that instead of blocking if something potentially dangerous happens, transactions continue anyway, in the hope that everything will turn out all right.      
                - When a transaction wants to commit, the database checks whether anything bad happened (i.e., whether isolation was violated); if so, the trans‐action is aborted and has to be retried. Only transactions that executed serializably are allowed to commit.       

- **Chapter-8:The Trouble with Distributed Systems**        
    - Modern computers have at least two different kinds of clocks: **a time-of-day clock and a monotonic clock**.
    - **Time-of-day clock** does what you intuitively expect of a clock: it returns the current date and time according to some calendar (also known as wall-clock time). eg System.currentTimeMillis()     
    - **A monotonic clock** is suitable for measuring a duration (time interval). eg. System.nanoTime()                  
    - In a distributed system, using a monotonic clock for measuring elapsed time (e.g., timeouts) is usually fine, because it doesn’t assume any synchronization between different nodes’ clocks and is not sensitive to slight inaccuracies of measurement.   
    - Monotonic clocks don’t need synchronization, but time-of-day clocks need to be set according to an NTP server or other external time source in order to be useful.        
    - The best way of handling leap seconds may be to make NTP servers “lie,” by performing the leap second adjustment gradually over the course of a day (this is known as **smearing**).      
    - **Logical clocks** are based on incrementing counters rather than an oscillating quartz crystal, are a safer alternative for ordering events. 
    - Logical clocks do not measure the time of day or the number of seconds elapsed, only the relative ordering of events (whether one event happened before or after another). In contrast, time-of-day and monotonic clocks, which measure actual elapsed time, are also known as physical clocks.       
    - **Google’s TrueTime API in Spanner** explicitly reports the confidence interval on the local clock. When you ask it for the current time, you get back two values: [earliest, latest], which are the earliest possible and the latest possible timestamp. Based on its uncertainty calculations, the clock knows that the actual current time is somewhere within that interval. The width of the interval depends, among other things, on how long it has been since the local quartz clock was last synchronized with a more accurate clock source.     
    - Ways in which distributed systems are different from programs running on a single computer: **there is no shared memory, only message passing via an unreliable network with variable delays, and the systems may suffer from partial failures, unreliable clocks, and processing pauses**.
    - **Byzantine Faults:**
        - Distributed systems problems become much harder if there is a risk that nodes may “lie” (send arbitrary faulty or corrupted responses)—for example, if a node may claim to have received a particular message when in fact it didn’t. Such behavior is known as a Byzantine fault, and the problem of reaching consensus in this untrusting environment is known as the Byzantine Generals Problem.
        - A system is **Byzantine fault-tolerant** if it continues to operate correctly even if some of the nodes are malfunctioning and not obeying the protocol, or if malicious attackers are interfering with the network.
    - With regard to timing assumptions, three system models are in common use:
            1. **Synchronous model:**       
            - The synchronous model assumes bounded network delay, bounded process pauses, and bounded clock error. This does not imply exactly synchronized clocks or zero network delay; it just means you know that network delay, pauses, and clock drift will never exceed some fixed upper bound [88]. The synchronous model is not a realistic model of most practical systems, because (as discussed in this chapter) unbounded delays and pauses do occur.          
            2. **Partially synchronous model:**     
            - Partial synchrony means that a system behaves like a synchronous system most of the time, but it sometimes exceeds the bounds for network delay, process pauses, and clock drift. This is a realistic model of many systems: most of the time, networks and processes are quite well behaved—otherwise we would never be able to get anything done—but we have to reckon with the fact that any timing assumptions may be shattered occasionally. When this happens, network delay, pauses, and clock error may become arbitrarily large.     
            3. **Asynchronous model:**      
            - In this model, an algorithm is not allowed to make any timing assumptions—in fact, it does not even have a clock (so it cannot use timeouts). Some algorithms can be designed for the asynchronous model, but it is very restrictive.      
    - The three most common system models for nodes are:
            1. **Crash-stop faults:**
            - In the crash-stop model, an algorithm may assume that a node can fail in only one way, namely by crashing. This means that the node may suddenly stop responding at any moment, and thereafter that node is gone forever—it never comes back.
            2. **Crash-recovery faults:**
            - We assume that nodes may crash at any moment, and perhaps start responding again after some unknown time. In the crash-recovery model, nodes are assumed to have stable storage (i.e., nonvolatile disk storage) that is preserved across crashes, while the in-memory state is assumed to be lost.
            3. **Byzantine (arbitrary) faults:**
            - Nodes may do absolutely anything, including trying to trick and deceive other nodes, as described in the last section.        
        
- **Chapter-9:Consistency and Consensus**
    - Once you have an implementation of consensus, applications can use it for various purposes. For example, say you have a database with single-leader replication. If the leader dies and you need to fail over to another node, the remaining database nodes can use consensus to elect a new leader. It’s important that there is only one leader, and that all nodes agree who the leader is. If two nodes both believe that they are the leader, that situation is called **split brain**, and it often leads to data loss. Correct implementations of consensus help avoid such problems.      
    - **Consistency Guarantees**
        - Most replicated databases provide at least eventual consistency, which means that if you stop writing to the database and wait for some unspecified length of time, then eventually all read requests will return the same value. In other words, the inconsistency is temporary, and it eventually resolves itself (assuming that any faults in the network are also eventually repaired). A better name for eventual consistency may be convergence, as we expect all replicas to eventually converge to the same value.        
        - **Linearizability:**
            - This is the idea behind linearizability (also known as atomic consistency, strong consistency, immediate consistency, or external consistency ). The exact definition of linearizability is quite subtle, and we will explore it in the rest of this section. But the basic idea is to make a system appear as if there were only one copy of the data, and all operations on it are atomic. With this guarantee, even though there may be multiple replicas in reality, the application does not need to worry about them.   
            - cas(x, vold, vnew) ⇒ r means the client requested an atomic compare-and-set operation. If the current value of the register x equals vold, it should be atomically set to vnew. If x ≠ vold then the operation should leave the register unchanged and return an error. r is the database’s response (ok or error).       
            - **Linearizability** is a recency guarantee on reads and writes of a register (an individual object). It doesn’t group operations together into transactions, so it does not prevent problems such as write skew, unless you take additional measures such as materializing conflicts.     
            - **Serializability** is an isolation property of transactions, where every transaction may read and write multiple objects (rows, documents, records). It guarantees that transactions behave the same as if they had executed in some serial order (each transaction running to completion before the next transaction starts). It is okay for that serial order to be different from the order in which transactions were actually run.
        - **CAP Theorem:**
            - At times when the network is working correctly, a system can provide both consistency (linearizability) and total availability. When a network fault occurs, you have to choose between either linearizability or total availability. Thus, a better way of phrasing CAP would be either Consistent or Available when Partitioned. A more reliable network needs to make this choice less often, but at some point the choice is inevitable.      
        - **Causality** imposes an ordering on events: cause comes before effect; a message is sent before that message is received; the question comes before the answer.
        - If a system obeys the ordering imposed by causality, we say that it is **causally consistent**. For example, snapshot isolation provides causal consistency: when you read from the database, and you see some piece of data, then you must also be able to see any data that causally precedes it (assuming it has not been deleted in the meantime).    
        - A **total order** allows any two elements to be compared, so if you have two elements, you can always say which one is greater and which one is smaller.For example, natural numbers are totally ordered: if I give you any two numbers, say 5 and 13, you can tell me that 13 is greater than 5.
        - However, mathematical sets are not totally ordered: is {a, b} greater than {b, c}? Well, you can’t really compare them, because neither is a subset of the other. We say they are incomparable, and therefore mathematical sets are **partially ordered**: in some cases one set is greater than another (if one set contains all the elements of another), but in other cases they are incomparable.
        - The difference between a total order and a partial order is reflected in different database consistency models:       
        - **Linearizability:**
            - In a linearizable system, we have a *total order* of operations: if the system behaves as if there is only a single copy of the data, and every operation is atomic, this means that for any two operations we can always say which one happened first.
        - **Causality:**
            - We said that two operations are concurrent if neither happened before the other. Put another way, two events are ordered if they are causally related (one happened before the other), but they are incomparable if they are concurrent. This means that **causality defines a partial order**, not a total order: some operations are ordered with respect to each other, but some are incomparable.
            - **Linearizability** is not the only way of preserving causality—there are other ways too. A system can be causally consistent without incurring the performance hit of making it linearizable (in particular, the CAP theorem does not apply). In fact, causal consistency is the strongest possible consistency model that does not slow down due to network delays, and remains available in the face of network failures.      
            - **Lamport Timestamp:**  
                - Each node has a unique identifier, and each node keeps a counter of the number of operations it has processed. The Lamport timestamp is then simply a pair of (counter, node ID). 
                - The key idea about Lamport timestamps, which makes them consistent with causality, is the following: every node and every client keeps track of the maximum counter value it has seen so far, and includes that maximum on every request. When a node receives a request or response with a maximum counter value greater than its own counter value, it immediately increases its own counter to that maximum.       
                - As long as the maximum counter value is carried along with every operation, this scheme ensures that the ordering from the Lamport timestamps is consistent with causality, because every causal dependency results in an increased timestamp.        
                - In order to implement something like a uniqueness constraint for usernames, it’s not sufficient to have a total ordering of operations—you also need to know when that order is finalized. If you have an operation to create a username, and you are sure that no other node can insert a claim for the same username ahead of your operation in the total order, then you can safely declare the operation successful.This idea of knowing when your total order is finalized is captured in the topic of **total order broadcast**.    
            - **Total order broadcast**
                - Total order broadcast is exactly what you need for database replication: if every message represents a write to the database, and every replica processes the same writes in the same order, then the replicas will remain consistent with each other (aside from any temporary replication lag). This principle is known as state machine replication.
                - Total order broadcast is usually described as a protocol for exchanging messages between nodes. Informally, it requires that two safety properties always be satisfied:
                    - **Reliable delivery:** No messages are lost: if a message is delivered to one node, it is delivered to all nodes.
                    - **Totally ordered delivery:** Messages are delivered to every node in the same order.    
                - **Implementing total order broadcast using linearizable storage:** The algorithm is simple: for every message you want to send through total order broadcast, you increment-and-get the linearizable integer, and then attach the value you got from the register as a sequence number to the message. You can then send the message to all nodes (resending any lost messages), and the recipients will deliver the messages consecutively by sequence number. 
                    Unlike Lamport timestamps, the numbers you get from incrementing the linearizable register form a sequence with no gaps. Thus, if a node has delivered message 4 and receives an incoming message with a sequence number of 6, it knows that it must wait for message 5 before it can deliver message 6. The same is not the case with Lamport timestamps—in fact, this is the key difference between total order broadcast and timestamp ordering.     
            - **Distributed Transactions and Consensus:**
                - There are a number of situations in which it is important for nodes to agree. For example:
                    - **Leader election:**
                        - In a database with single-leader replication, all nodes need to agree on which node is the leader. The leadership position might become contested if some nodes can’t communicate with others due to a network fault. In this case, consensus is important to avoid a bad failover, resulting in a split brain situation in which two nodes both believe themselves to be the leader. If there were two leaders, they would both accept writes and their data would diverge, leading to inconsistency and data loss.        
                    - **Atomic commit:**
                        - In a database that supports transactions spanning several nodes or partitions, we have the problem that a transaction may fail on some nodes but succeed on others. If we want to maintain transaction atomicity (in the sense of ACID), we have to get all nodes to agree on the outcome of the transaction: either they all abort/roll back (if anything goes wrong) or they all commit (if nothing goes wrong). This instance of consensus is known as the atomic commit problem.      
                        - **Atomic Commit and Two-Phase Commit (2PC):** 
                            - Two-phase commit is an algorithm for achieving atomic transaction commit across multiple nodes—i.e., to ensure that either all nodes commit or all nodes abort.    
                            - 2PC uses a new component that does not normally appear in single-node transactions: a coordinator (also known as transaction manager). The coordinator is often implemented as a library within the same application process that is requesting the transaction (e.g., embedded in a Java EE container), but it can also be a separate process or service.
                            - A 2PC transaction begins with the application reading and writing data on multiple database nodes, as normal. We call these database nodes participants in the transaction. When the application is ready to commit, the coordinator begins phase 1: it sends a prepare request to each of the nodes, asking them whether they are able to commit. The coordinator then tracks the responses from the participants:   
                                - If all participants reply “yes,” indicating they are ready to commit, then the coordinator sends out a commit request in phase 2, and the commit actually takes place.  
                                - If any of the participants replies “no,” the coordinator sends an abort request to all nodes in phase 2.
                            - Two-phase commit is called a blocking atomic commit protocol due to the fact that 2PC can become stuck waiting for the coordinator to recover.        
                        - **Three-phase commit:**
                            - 3PC assumes a network with bounded delay and nodes with bounded response times; in most practical systems with unbounded network delay and process pauses, it cannot guarantee atomicity.
                            - In general, nonblocking atomic commit requires a perfect failure detector— i.e., a reliable mechanism for telling whether a node has crashed or not. In a network with unbounded delay a timeout is not a reliable failure detector, because a request may time out due to a network problem even if no node has crashed. For this reason, 2PC continues to be used, despite the known problem with coordinator failure.      
                    - **Fault-Tolerant Consensus:**
                        - The consensus problem is normally formalized as follows: one or more nodes may propose values, and the consensus algorithm decides on one of those values.        
                        - A consensus algorithm must satisfy the following properties [25]:xiii
                            - **Uniform agreement:** No two nodes decide differently.
                            - **Integrity:** No node decides twice.
                            - **Validity:** If a node decides value v, then v was proposed by some node.
                            - **Termination:** Every node that does not crash eventually decides some value.
                        - The uniform agreement and integrity properties define the core idea of consensus: everyone decides on the same outcome, and once you have decided, you cannot change your mind. The validity property exists mostly to rule out trivial solutions: for example, you could have an algorithm that always decides null, no matter what was proposed; this algorithm would satisfy the agreement and integrity properties, but not the validity property. The termination property formalizes the idea of fault tolerance. It essentially says that a consensus algorithm cannot simply sit around and do nothing forever—in other words, it must make progress. Even if some nodes fail, the other nodes must still reach a decision. (Termination is a liveness property, whereas the other three are safety properties).      
                        - The best-known fault-tolerant consensus algorithms are Viewstamped Replication (VSR), Paxos, Raft, Zab.   
                        - Remember that total order broadcast requires messages to be delivered exactly once, in the same order, to all nodes. If you think about it, this is equivalent to performing several rounds of consensus: in each round, nodes propose the message that they want to send next, and then decide on the next message to be delivered in the total order.
                        - Viewstamped Replication, Raft, and Zab implement total order broadcast directly, because that is more efficient than doing repeated rounds of one-value-at-a-time consensus. In the case of Paxos, this optimization is known as Multi-Paxos.    
                        - All of the consensus protocols discussed so far internally use a leader in some form or another, but they don’t guarantee that the leader is unique. Instead, they can make a weaker guarantee: the protocols define an epoch number (called the ballot number in Paxos, view number in Viewstamped Replication, and term number in Raft) and guarantee that within each epoch, the leader is unique.     
                        - Every time the current leader is thought to be dead, a vote is started among the nodes to elect a new leader. This election is given an incremented epoch number, and thus epoch numbers are totally ordered and monotonically increasing. If there is a conflict between two different leaders in two different epochs (perhaps because the previous leader actually wasn’t dead after all), then the leader with the higher epoch number prevails.      

##Part III. Derived Data

- **Chapter-10:Consistency and Consensus**
    - To create a MapReduce job, you need to implement two callback functions, the mapper and reducer:
        - **Mapper:** It is called once for every input record, and its job is to extract the key and value from the input record. For each input, it may generate any number of key-value pairs (including none). It does not keep any state from one input record to the next, so each record is handled independently.   
        - **Reducer:** The MapReduce framework takes the key-value pairs produced by the mappers, collects all the values belonging to the same key, and calls the reducer with an iterator over that collection of values. The reducer can produce output records (such as the number of occurrences of the same URL).
    - The output of a batch process is often not a report, but some other kind of structure.    
    
- **Chapter-11:Stream Processing**  
    - When the input is a file (a sequence of bytes), the first processing step is usually to parse it into a sequence of records. In a stream processing context, a record is more commonly known as an event, but it is essentially the same thing: a small, selfcontained, immutable object containing the details of something that happened at some point in time.    
    - In batch processing, a file is written once and then potentially read by multiple jobs. Analogously, in streaming terminology, an event is generated once by a producer (also known as a publisher or sender), and then potentially processed by multiple consumers (subscribers or recipients). 
    - In a filesystem, a filename identifies a set of related records; in a streaming system, related events are usually grouped together into a topic or stream.
    - **Messaging Systems:** A common approach for notifying consumers about new events is to use a messaging system: a producer sends a message containing the event, which is then pushed to consumers.
        - What happens if the producers send messages faster than the consumers can process them? 
          Broadly speaking, there are three options: the system can drop messages, buffer messages in a queue, or apply backpressure (also known as flow control; i.e., blocking the producer from sending more messages). 
        - What happens if nodes crash or temporarily go offline—are any messages lost? 
          As with databases, durability may require some combination of writing to disk and/or replication, which has a cost. If you can afford to sometimes lose messages, you can probably get higher throughput and lower latency on the same hardware.   
        - **Webhooks** is a pattern in which a callback URL of one service is registered with another service, and it makes a request to that URL whenever an event occurs.     
        - **Message broker (also known as a message queue)**, which is essentially a kind of database that is optimized for handling message streams. It runs as a server, with producers and consumers connecting to it as clients. Producers write messages to the broker, and consumers receive them by reading them from the broker.    
        - When multiple consumers read messages in the same topic, two main patterns of messaging are used:     
          **Load balancing:** Each message is delivered to one of the consumers, so the consumers can share the work of processing the messages in the topic. The broker may assign messages to consumers arbitrarily. This pattern is useful when the messages are expensive to process, and so you want to be able to add consumers to parallelize the processing. (  
          **Fan-out:** Each message is delivered to all of the consumers. Fan-out allows several independent consumers to each “tune in” to the same broadcast of messages, without affecting each other—the streaming equivalent of having several different batch jobs that read the same input file.  
          **Acknowledgments and redelivery:** Consumers may crash at any time, so it could happen that a broker delivers a message to a consumer but the consumer never processes it, or only partially processes it before crashing. In order to ensure that the message is not lost, message brokers use acknowledgments: a client must explicitly tell the broker when it has finished processing a message so that the broker can remove it from the queue.     
        - **Log-based message brokers:** 
            - A log is simply an append-only sequence of records on disk. The same structure can be used to implement a message broker: a producer sends a message by appending it to the end of the log, and a consumer receives messages by reading the log sequentially. If a consumer reaches the end of the log, it waits for a notification that a new message has been appended.
            - In order to scale to higher throughput than a single disk can offer, the log can be **partitioned**. Different partitions can then be hosted on different machines, making each partition a separate log that can be read and written independently from other partitions. 
            - **A topic** can then be defined as a group of partitions that all carry messages of the same type. 
            - Within each partition, the broker assigns a monotonically increasing sequence number, or offset, to every message.
            - Such a sequence number makes sense because a partition is append-only, so the messages within a partition are totally ordered. There is no ordering guarantee across different partitions.    
            - **Consumer offsets:** Consuming a partition sequentially makes it easy to tell which messages have been processed: all messages with an offset less than a consumer’s current offset have already been processed, and all messages with a greater offset have not yet been seen. Thus, the broker does not need to track acknowledgments for every single message— it only needs to periodically record the consumer offsets. The reduced bookkeeping overhead and the opportunities for batching and pipelining in this approach help increase the throughput of log-based systems.      
    - **Databases and Streams:**    
        - A replication log is a stream of database write events, produced by the leader as it processes transactions. The followers apply that stream of writes to their own copy of the database and thus end up with an accurate copy of the same data. The events in the replication log describe the data changes that occurred.
        - The state machine replication principle states: if every event represents a write to the database, and every replica processes the same events in the same order, then the replicas will all end up in the same final state. (Processing an event is assumed to be a deterministic operation.) It’s just another case of event streams!   
        - Similarly to change data capture, event sourcing involves storing all changes to the application state as a log of change events. The biggest difference is that event sourcing applies the idea at a different level of abstraction:
            - In **change data capture**, the application uses the database in a mutable way, updating and deleting records at will. The log of changes is extracted from the database at a low level (e.g., by parsing the replication log), which ensures that the order of writes extracted from the database matches the order in which they were actually written, avoiding the race condition. The application writing to the database does not need to be aware that CDC is occurring.
            - In **event sourcing**, the application logic is explicitly built on the basis of immutable events that are written to an event log. In this case, the event store is appendonly, and updates or deletes are discouraged or prohibited. Events are designed to reflect things that happened at the application level, rather than low-level state changes.             
        - The application state is what you get when you integrate an event stream over time, and a change stream is what you get when you differentiate the state by time.         
        - Whenever you have state that changes, that state is the result of the events that mutated it over time. For example, your list of currently available seats is the result of the reservations you have processed, the current account balance is the result of the credits and debits on the account.     
        - No matter how the state changes, there was always a sequence of events that caused those changes. Even as things are done and undone, the fact remains true that those events occurred. The key idea is that mutable state and an append-only log of immutable events do not contradict each other: they are two sides of the same coin. The log of all changes, **the changelog**, represents the evolution of state over time.      
        - **Advantages of immutable events** If you accidentally deploy buggy code that writes bad data to a database, recovery is much harder if the code is able to destructively overwrite data. With an append-only log of immutable events, it is much easier to diagnose what happened and recover from the problem. Immutable events also capture more information than just the current state. For example, on a shopping website, a customer may add an item to their cart and then remove it again. Although the second event cancels out the first event from the point of view of order fulfillment, it may be useful to know for analytics purposes that the customer was considering a particular item but then decided against it. Perhaps they will choose to buy it in the future, or perhaps they found a substitute. This information is recorded in an event log, but would be lost in a database that deletes items when they are removed from the cart.   
        - **An idempotent operation** is one that you can perform multiple times, and it has the same effect as if you performed it only once. For example, setting a key in a key-value store to some fixed value is idempotent, whereas incrementing a counter is not idempotent. 
